you can edit the genres once the songs are on the play if you decide to re-classify things later .
  After talking to the salesman, I instead bought the 4G, 20GB (that stands for 4th generation; it looks like a mini - same features), and didn't know that a lot of the ipods out there for sell, including on amazon, are still 3G.
i thought the software was decent enough - it was n't complicated to learn at all .
one broke , one got stolen , and then i bought the riovolt sp - 350 .
all the buttons & neccessary lil ' gadgets are on the sides of the player which is nice for when you are holding it in the palm of your hand .
possibly the biggest advantage this player has ( if price was n't enough ) is the fact that the user can replace the battery him / herself by opening the lid and popping in the new battery .
so if you happen to be out of the house and you have a frozen os you can 't use nomad until you get home .
several people have complained of difficulty transferring multiple songs with the same title .
did i mention i 've already dropped it once ?
The new firmware fixes this as long as you put the player in lock mode before plugging it into said PC.
And within one hour I had downloaded , organized my play lists and was listening to the songs I downloaded.
1 ) player is not plug and play - need to install nomad explorer first and mediasource to transfer files and i had to be patient as i was used to winxp detecting the player and dragging and dropping the music files into it .
5 ) lack of good accessories - this is more of an oversight of creative 's marketing .
granted it is a little more than the zen , it is well worth it .
the higher the number the better the quality ( less data compression is used ) and the larger the file size .
I've had it for about a week now and have to say it's one of the best purchases I've ever made.
on planes i use a splitter so two headphones can be plugged in for two people and the sound is equally good .
you can easily access ur files , and easily fill in the id3 tags , which can take a while with a big collection of music , but if your not lazy , you will do it without a problem .
always carried it in a case in by briefcase but one day the hard drive just zapped .
the main problem with the nomad jukebox zen xtra 30 gb is the software .
i am crossing my finger and wish they will fix the problem .
feedback on creative 's product support is universally poor ; this is not limited to the zen , it applies to all the company 's products .
i purchased the extended warranty ( something i almost never do ) when i returned the unit to get the replacement .
i made an additional five attempts at creating a playlist , before packing the unit up and heading over to amazon 's product return page .
that takes up half the space of mp3 's .
btw , if you * are * ripping your cds , mediasource accesses the cddb music catalog over the internet and the few cds i experimented with all provided good quality [ correct & uncluttered ] tag information .
i followed their advice but that failed , too .
)  Construction?
this did not give me enough control .
you can also slow a song down & speed it up , which is cool too .
so i requested and received a zen xtra as a christmas gift .
Its a few bucks more and has only 5 GB's of storage but its well worth the trade off.
Remember this is a huge plus when travelling.
the appearance is okayed ( at least not ugly ) .
if you bring up an album , but absolutely hate some of the tracks , the zen will allow you to delete that from the playing order .
in other words , the zen is not a convenient data storage device ; only buy the capacity you need for your music collection ( see point 1. for some sizing information ) .
i am a software engineer and if i wrote an interface to my software that worked like this , there would be hell to pay , not to mention the ridicule from my peers .
while it is an alternative to the ipod and one of the few viable ones its just that , an alternative and why would anyone seek an alternative to something that really needs no alternative choice because theres nothing wrong and everything right with it .
i could n't load more than one song before the software crashed .
i would like album order for my live albums and was just wondering .
but the sound is very good ( and loud ) and works well on my portable speakers .
I downloaded the new firmware which was supposed to take care of the problem, but it hasn't worked.
my first impression was positive .
The Zen lives up to the audio quality I love and expect.
many people have written about the software being its one downfall , personally i have n't had a single problem with the software , i 'm running windows me .
features[-][u][cc]It hold's a promised amount of songs, and the headphone jack/volume controls deliver a more impressive performance than creative's.
the sound is indeed excellent and the form factore is not bad ( but still rather larger than i had expected ) .. .
 they initially told me that i would have to ship it back to them on my own cost.
2 . the scroll button is n't the best , as it sometimes can be hard to select .
The Creative Zen Micro, at first glance, is a dream come true for all mp3 and music lovers.
I enjoy getting use to the touch pad.
Stuff you may need to buy: Wired remote from creative.
Given that, I find the iPod solution reasonable: keep the case sealed and let the battery be changed by a technician once every 2-3 years.
i made the mistake of thinking i could easily manage my mp3 library with this device .
 The iPod is a little more weighty than I expected, but it's not unmanageable.
this thing , while looking pretty cool , is not as sexy as the ipod .
I was going to purchase a pink one and then decided that I'd get a purple one because that's my favorite color....however Circuit City had it for $10 cheaper ($219.00) in black and I could !
The slow throbbing glow that it emits during charging is cool too.
this is a nice feature ( i.e. it 's early in the morning and you rather listen to " easy listening " rather than " heavy metal " - no problem .
The blue light also makes this player one of the most fashionable in the market also.
Fortunately for me, I have yet to have a single problem with this player.
i have tried the belkin tunecast mobile fm transmitter but found there was too much interference .
they 're pretty comfortable , stay in place and deliver a decent audio quality .
Most importantly because the iPods warranty is far superior to both these, the Creative Zens is only 90 days, way too short.
you have to install the software to the computer you 're transferring to , instead of just connecting it with a usb connection .
 As with most headphones that come with any type of music player,I recommend throwing these into the nearest river, unless you like having hard, round pieces of plastic in your ears.
there is a clock , and date , which can get helpful .
enough people have reported that their headphone jack does n't work after a month of using the device to believe that creative has some inbuilt manufacturing or quality control problem .
despite all the hype about ipods , i knew i wanted something different , because i wanted more storage than the ipod i could afford would offer , and because i wanted more flexibility in where i purchased music online .
this is not the unit you should use if you go jogging anyway .
PC software that comes with the player is not as simple as i Tunes but its not bad at all.
2 ) having unfilled id3 tags will cause music to be potentially placed in a folder called " unknown . "
the nomad zen could use a little sturdier construction like the archos jukeboxes or some kind of shock resistant case .
it would have been much easier to use a windows explorer style navigation system .
The Zen Micro FM receiver is ok, not great.
i have windows xp pro and when installing the enclosed software i did receive a message that there was a problem installing the driver .
i think the reson for the creative being larger is for sound dampening and protection , whihc is a plus , but then again it is only speculation .
kind of bulky and the wheel is awkward , but i can deal with that .
 Quite simply, BUY THE IPOD, whatever size you wish.
Try an additional *six* hours, methinks.
i did a little research on the web and this is the player i decided on .
 For about $5! 6 dollars, you can get an "extended warranty" and apple will replace the battery within 2 years if it dies.
what kind of product goes out within a month ?
Excellent sound I mean the player has juice.
Even on the LOW sensitivy level, a slight touch can skip or pause the track.
The iPod mini is smaller and sexier, albeit limited in supported formats and the Rio Karma is a far better value.
You can't see it by looking into the jacks where the prongs are.
first , the zen lets you sync to more than one computer .
It's so cute...and behind the black panel it glows in a neon blue.
i had no problems setting up the software and getting my favorite cd 's transferred .
yes the included earphones suck but everyone replaces them anyway .
nice palm sized unit , somewhat bigger then the ipod but not an issue if you 're not going to try & jog with it or something .
once again , the sound is awesome , the batterly life is only 6-8 hours , and that is because all my music is 320 kbps which does affect the battery life .
 I'm not one of them.
sure it 's " old school " to carry a cd wallet around , but it will be easier to manage and i 'll save around 250 bucks .
I'm not sure whether this is related to the charge cycle of its Li-Ion battery, the better firmware, or a combination of both factors.
from the other reviews i 've read , it sounds like that wo n't be the end of my troubles .
I'd never had an MP3 player before, so this was a new one on me.
I did a quick test by selecting a few files and copying them over and they loaded right in.
2 ) no games - it has a cool screen - why not use it .
I compared it to other CD players (Two models of Panasonic, Rio & samsung) and they were no way even near Zen Micro.
However after playing with it for three weeks now, I'm convinced, the Zen Micro is superior.
The FM radio's reception isn't spectacular, but it will pick up the most powerful stations in any given metro area.
i have over 2000 files in my playlist at the moment and the random does a nice job mixing it up .
i have n't tried setting up any playlists yet so i can 't comment on any problems there .
The music MUST be on your computer.
This one is particularly bothersome: Allegedly one can use the Zen Micro as a portable drive to store and transport data from one computer to another.
I Love My iPod!
3.
Whether you're on the go or just want to lounge around the house listening to music, you could definitely do much, much worse than purchasing this durable and reliable product from Apple.
You can buy a new battery for 49.99.
after looking over multiple large mp3 players , i decided to get this one .
you can find any song quicky by an artist , album , or genre search .
I saw the Zen, and-BOOM-I bought one for me and one for a family member.
Gets nice sound too.
  It was worth it, as I use it to this very day.
getting the program to install properly has been a living hell experience .
the documentation says to extend battery life , do not fill player to capacity .
the 4G Ipod costs the same as this 5G Zen Micro.
that is , if a folder on your computer called " mp3 " has slayer ( thrash metal ) , stravinsky ( classical ) , and ice cube ( rap ) in it , you will only be able to play the contents of that folder by searching for the artists or genres manually .
i could crush this thing in half with two fingers if i wanted to .
It comes with an adapter to plug into the wall, which I hear is a step up from the other iPods, which require you plug it into a computer to charge it.
i use mine at the office , in the car ( with a cassette adapter ) , and will be taking it on a flight back east for the holiday .
i like the way apple is innovative , but let 's face it - they can 't be the only one with an idea to enclose a 2.5 " hd within an aluminum case in a stylish package for long , especially after the buzz is out of their little techie pod .
The Look & Feel: I have the black one and the contrasting neon blue on the buttons add a very nice ambience.
Just don't drop it.
compared to other leading hdd mp3 players , the value per gb is the tops .
  While I like the minimialism of the player, I try to avoid plastic products made of white- they tend to yellow with age.
 *The ipod is overly sensitive to just about everything and gets scratched easily.
One of my favorite features about the player is its ability to sync to Windows Media Player.
notmad worked right away after install and it is what i would like to see from the product .
Since nothing is perfect, the iPod does have some disadvantages, such as its reliance on iTunes to download music (if you hate iTunes, don't buy an iPod!).
i currently have ~ 1100 songs encoded mostly at 196 kpbs and i have n't even used 10gb of storage yet .
i am not associated with the company , i am not providing a url , but search for notmad and you should find it pretty easily .
People are use to seeing so may Ipods, that when they see my Zen, they have to ask questions.
1 ) fragile ( i broke the 1st one within 10 days )
But all you need to do is convert the files (besides mp3s are larger and better quality files than wmas) using a wide range of convertors, my favourite is the dBPowerAmp Music Coverter which also allows you to burn directly from cd to hardrive in mp3 format unlike Media Player.
i have n't quite figured this one out yet , but it is probably operator error .
but for someone who cares about thier music collection and wants fluid and responsive playback .. . i can 't recommend this product .
 I have about 6 gb used on my iPod so far (well over 1000 songs), and as far as I can tell, all of them play at near-cd quality.
interface - practically seamless .
  *	You can't turn the volume up very high, but I think this might be for health reasons. *
There is an attachment you can buy that allows you to use AA batteries in an emergency, but...I've never completely run out of juice; just dangerously low on long airline trips.
the eax settings are somewhat superfluous but not really a negative .
other tagging problems result ( i think ) from the nomad 's operating system .
 I would strongly recommend you get one !!
basic shipping was a bit slow , but that 's okay .
is my unit defective ?
  My earlier generation (15Gb) iPod lasted two years, shortened by my own inattention to the simple maintainence asked by Apple (go through at least one charging cycle per month, and don't store the iPod in a car on a summer day because high temp. is harmful to the battery's life).
The game plays a segment of a song, and gives you a multiple-choice list wherein you have a short period of time to choose the title of the song from a list of others.
Its my first purchase choice.
for example , jimi hendrix 's 2 cd live at the fillmore east had one cd classifed as classic rock and the other psychidelic rock .
- Doubles as a removable disk drive.
Tested with the same mp3 for benchmarking
  The click wheel is incredibly convenient, however it can be a little overly touchy at times, which will make you frustrated with your own fingers.
I've read about the issues with the scroll bar, but they must have taken care of that now.
Plus, from the Creative discussion forums it is clear that they have some problems with excessive battery drainage with the current firmware.
i use my own mid-priced headphones rather than the enclosed earbuds .
hmmmmm ....
the software is great .
It barely holds anything and mine just puts a bunch of thread fuzzies all over the player, because the bag is cheap and seems to be coming apart.
 I bought the JBL Creature speakers for home use, and they work great with the iPod.
- Looks sleek, compact, has a radio.
I've been using iTunes for about a year now with the intention of eventually buying an iPod.
Overall though, i'm very happy with it and highly recommend it to folks looking for a mp3 player, even if it is to pretend your not a braindead consumer giving into the marketing hype of the iPod. ;)
2 ) music organization is based on id3 ( by genre , artist , album , etc. ) and this can be a problem for older downloaded music files with missing or incorrect id3 information .
that 's important because i have a lot of music .
I got rid of my older PDA figuring that since the only function I used on it anyways was to manage my contacts and calender, I could now use my Zen Micro.
so i took it back to best buy where i bought it and exchanged it for a newer zen 20 gig model .
it worked good for a while .
this would not be a great problem if you did n't have so much info to scroll through on a regular basis .
I was at [random electronic store], browsing through players, and came across two that made the cut.
* price and capacity
For whatever reason. There is also a low number of people, like me, who love iTunes but want to get the Zen Micro.
headphones suck , i would invest in some cool ones since it has the eax feature .
the warranty is 90 days .
this product is too fragile for normal use .
i was trying to decide whether or not i should go with the 40 gb ipod or this 30 gb zen xtra .
finally , i uninstalled and reinstalled the software , the usual measure of last resort for this sort of thing .
here are the pros and cons ( few there are ) in detail :
it is transferes a song in about 2 seconds .
Versatile and stylish.
Its not convinient to enter name of course but synchronise it with outlook and it becomes a gem of a address book.
It has to be the UI and user experience.
You're better off not dropping below 128 kbps, especially with music.
My friend has this unit while not experience it much, I look at other reviews on this site and tried out the unit at Best Buy, and it's definitely the most overrated gadget in history.
- Replaceable battery.
 The box comes with iPod, ear buds, iTunes and iPod software, USB 2.0 and FireWire cables, and a home charger.
i quickly got to use to the interface and can find any song / playlist etc fast enough .
i love the storage in this thing .
you 're going to need to buy new headphones , the stock ones suck
i do n't want to install software and drivers on every computer i 'm ever at .
if you 're like me , that will definitely make you pause .
 However, they close you off from exploring the continent that is other music providers.
but if you want a great deal and a great mp3 player , get the nomad .
wow , dennis sure is great !
simple mechanical buttons would probably work !
most people say buy an ipod , but they are pretty expensive and also require you to send the product back to the factory just to replace the battery .
That's it.
and go from there ... if you chose one of the " all " options , then you do n't need to do anything until it 's done .
I think the OS and controls are very well thought out and although I'll admit I was a bit intimidated during my first few hours with the Micro, the interface and controls became second nature after the first day or so.
the software lets you pop in a cd and then scans the internet to name the artist , track name and album name .
originally i wanted the ipod .
eball metaphor: I was hoping Creative hit a home run here, and I think the Zen Micro is more like a stand-up double.
i fully expect it to go bad again in the same or some other way in the next 6 months because , as other reviewers have pointed out , the construction is pretty flimsy .
every time nomad thinks the file is corrupt the os freezes .
It's rechargable and supposedly easy to replace though I haven't had to do it yet of course.
The subscription service lets me download as much as I want, and the player lets me take it wherever I go.
i suppose that you could jog with it but it seems to be made for the enjoyment of music .
3.
those that have it like it .
They're easy to use.
Apple closed their island to anything that resembled Microsoft, and clearly let Napster know it could not use their products with Napster's services.
the front cover can pop off easily but i always have mine in the case so i did n't notice after first day .
Plug in a decent set or hook it up to a stereo system and prepare to be impressed.
To bad Napster software is not compatible with Apple IPod's.
Second might be a problem I might have with my PC but not too sure, when the player is connected on the USB and I start playing on it and also using the windows explorer, it sometimes pauses by itself and tries to synchronise with the PC during play, which is a bit irritating.
the headphones are not very comfortable, but most people have a certain style they like so just go buy new ones or keep the ones you have.
this is unnecessary with id3 tags but people who like to organize their music in folders will not like the zen as the audio files do not allow subfolders but rely on id3 tags .
   I LOVE THIS IPOD!  So why, you ask, did I give it only one star?
the ipod is a one way only machine - from computer to player .
It is not a perfect product but it does have a lot going for it.
Mp3 players are like a blessing and a curse for people like me.
  With accessories, you can make the iPod into a digital recorder, broadcast it remotely through stereo speakers using wireless technology, and play it through your car speakers using either a CD adaptor or FM stereo broadcaster.
If you don't mind all the buttons being touch sensitive, I'd recomment buying it to try out, and also buy an extra 2 year warrenty for it (there are some offered here, for about $15 dollors I think).
1 ) fm receiver - some models out there have this .
battery recharge , is an awesome thing , because it recharges in only like 2-3 hours .
My PC only supports USB 1.0 not the 2.0 which is blazing fast.
 Battery non-issue.
cons :
ipod has no stop button ; when new users mention this ipod veterans call it " unnecessary " and " so 20th century " .
Do NOT buy Apple.
The computer interface is 90% good, only losing points due to the fact that "Creative" branding is all over the place within it.
Eventually I had to uninstall the whole works and reinstall it from scratch, and from then on it has worked like a dream.
Transferring music is a breeze. I don't subscribe to music services, but as mentioned on other reviews, Micro allows you to subscribe to services OTHER than iTunes.
Too bad.
in short , this player is good at size , value , hardware design but really bad at its software
all the products have drawbacks and are not mature yet ; if you expect value and reliability then wait a while .
the price is way below an ipod of the same size .
The Creative MediaSource software that comes with the Zen Micro is cluttered, and excludes my favorite feature in iTunes, the ability to automatically copy everything you import into a certain folder.
the software is somewhat nice to look at , using it is not the easiest .
this is a good deal for music and data storage .
Hold Button-- suprisingly not all MP3s have this; this allows you  to have all the buttons unusable, so that you don't accidently hit something in your pocket.
i bought the player this week and i like it by far .
 I strongly suggest anyone considering an iPod test it out first to see how they like it.
 the when i called they said they werent responsible for open packages because they couldnt verify it being open when i received it (why else would i want to return it if not for this? if the product was defective i would have complained so) and that if i returned it i would have to pay a 15% restocking fee!  i'm at my wits end with this company.
it was impossible to do so before .
within 5 minutes i was able to transfer files .
 My ONLY complaint thus far is the process of downloading tracks to the iPod itself - the iTunes software is really a hassle, above all else the whole concept of WMA and the faulty built-in converter
I like it.
I love the features on the iPod and the many things you can do with it.
Moving on to sound department... It delivers!
After reading the reviews, I was all ready for the unit to lock up on me after the initial charge...but it never happened.
but i 've already emailed creative tech support about it , and gotten timely responses - they will fix it for me if necessary .. .
Accessories were cheap looking.
it was just a problem with the player .
No locked-in proprietary business like Apple; this baby plays WMAs too.
As for the Zen Micro:\  Cons:  I read that every button is touch sensitive, and thats very annoying when all the main buttons are on the front.
I wish they has a "lock" function like cell phones to prevent this.
The iPod's battery, 1.5 years.
creative labs customer support website is useless .
going into the Zen from my computer, so my stubby, clumsy fingers could cordinate better with my color blind, near, far and mid sighted eyes.
 At $290 (the price I paid) it's quite a bargain.
Instead I use a cellphone cover with a belt clip and it works just fine.
the 20 gig ipod still goes for just under $ 400 .
so what ?
maybe creative will come out with a better design , although it will be hard for me and its other customers to trust it again .
e ) the case is too small -- it took me like a half hour just to get this monstrosity to fit in its cage
9 .
it 's horrible .
I tried to use the FM radio option, but it doesn't seem to really pick up the stations I listen, however I am going to try it in a different location, it may have just been my residential location.
Soon I will have every CD song I care about from my collection to carry around with me.
I dont use the belt clip cuz it fails to hold the player securely (design problem).
that 's why you have these things that can be keychain size .
If you're considering an iPod mini or even an iPod, read this.
but that 's a moot point now .
the player controls are too easy to hit accidentally .
one beef is the scroll , it does n't work as well as i 'd like .
i doubt anyone has ever seen an add or commercial for any other mp3 player .
 That's the only advice I would give to someone considering an iPod purchase: you really may not really need 20GB or 40GB.
It's supposed to support that format, but I keep getting a file transfer failure no matter what I try.
so what 's the problem ?
  So I got a free 5G upgrade out of that misfortune.
this thing lasted well over 14 hours when i played it straight for the first time .
This is a must have.
i 'm not looking forward to ripping my entire collection every month or two .
through the software you can classify songs in genres .
- sound quality : excellent , everything you would expect from this company .
cons summary :
what a big improvement ... lol ) and the fact that lots of people have had problems with ipods on windows computers , i realized this is a much better buy .
This device looks pretty nice but it's really not very competitive.
 a week passed but it was never picked up.
+looks snazzy +smaller than a pack of smokes - easily transported +ac charger included as well as a hardshell that comes with a clip and a stand adapter +USB cable !
like many others , i had not abused the product , and had tried to take care of it .
however the main reason i am not satisfied with this product is the fact that it will lock up at odd times .
i just bought notmad manager ( $ 25 ) and file transfers are easy drag and drop , songs stored by id3 tags not by folders , needs to have software on computer to transfer files , no window on case ( nice case otherwise .
The headphones which came with it are mediocre at best but what can you expect from a set of "ear buds".
To me, currently at $218, this player is a!
The player was not very appealing either.
i have 100 of my cd 's transferred and have n't made a dent in the 30 gb drive .
do n't waste your time , engery , resources on this thing , just spend a little more for a far more functional ipod .
 The only area I wish Apple had improved upon would be the screen.
it comes with a good case that fits it snuggly .
It feels tiny in the hand without it.
Another problem is that the latest 2.0 firmware upgrade moves you into Windows Media Player 10 which seems to be very, very slow for downloads.  charging[-2]
before anyone says hey you have n't used the product , i have , my friend received one for christmas instead of an ipod and has since envied me for my vastly superior product .
fact is , it could n't be easier to use .
Transfering MP3s are a cinch with the included software.
my cuzin got an ipod and i wo n't say it is an awful product , but i will say that for the price , apple could do better as far as storage and battery life goes .
if you plan to carry the device around ( it is a mobile device , right ? ) then this is something you might want to think about .
i doubt i will use half of the storage capacity , but you never know .
I didn't experience any problems with the software or getting my computer to recognize the player.
Finally, compare the iPod to other players on a cost/Gb, and also consider ease of use.
I must say that there are several factors that influenced my purchase.
The sound is bright and clear, the ability to store any MP3's (and not just Apple-approved files) is great, and I plan to make use of the storage space and sound recording from time to time.
the only two things that stop me from giving it 5 stars are the ho-hum software that comes with the system , and the traveling case it comes with .
maybe more competitors will bring out similar products .
i did n't read a thing about how to operate it -- it was just intuitive .
i was sitting on a train and it fell off my lap and broke .
 Cons: No AM/FM Radio Tuner-- Something a large number of competetors are doing
Its $4.99 a month ($60 annually) to download as much music as you like.
despite its being slightly larger than the ipod , i must say i was surprised to see how small it was when i unwrapped the box !
i have n't messed with the firmware at all , the player worked perfect for me right out of the box .
This is the best purchase I've made in a very long time.
After comparing the included Creative earbuds directly against my Sony MD-E828LP's and Sennheiser MX-400's, I find myself still using the Creative's, which in my opinion, sound every bit as good and have a slightly longer cord.
I used them.
8 .
You can use the player to store your computer data files (Good feature to have).
No skips, and it hasn't faltered once (despite your inevitable drop or two.
The fit and finish of the product is first-rate.
The interface works great.
i first bought a 6 gig nomad jukebox ( original ).
you have to skip to the next track when your hated song comes up with the ipod .
in any case , navigation by artist / album is ok however i miss an ability to navigate by folders .
it 's easy to transfer , preview , and organize files .
 First, let me say that I got the 20gb iPod for Christmas, and I most likely would not have spent the $300 myself.
Does not come with the dock, remote control, or carrying case like the 3rd generation units - but you get $100 off the price, so you can still end up with the same accessories, and a new generation iPod for the same money.
i 'll just say this .. .
and the case , how did this ever make it out of quality control .
the general button placement is not very user friendly .
  I am so impressed with the iPod that our next purchase will likely be a Mini Mac.
a ) feel cheap -- the plastic is feels like it would break very easily , and it definately wouldnt survive a drop
but they offer only a 3-month warranty ( on all of their players , including the zen xtra ) .
the ipod is also an attractable piece , being lightweight and small .
2 .
also , the instruction manual is very bad .
) One outstanding positive feature is the battery. It holds a charge for a long time, longer than most other similar products and the user can replace it easily or take another along as a backup.
my brother bought an ipod this past summer and my dad bought the original zen around the same time ..
It had issues right off the bat, with freezing up, staying in 'SHUTTING DOWN' mode, and just not functioning very well in general.
 There is also no voice recording, something most if not all MP3 players have that the iPod doesn't.
Its compact and has rounded edges.
the software sucks .
you can create playlists , drag & drop songs and playlists to your player , and rip directly from cd to your player .
nothing but hassle with this company .
When mine died, I had 1,022 songs loaded, but only used a little over 2gb of space.
  Plus, if you order from Amazon.com, they will exchange it for you no problem.
 I think its the 21st century version of the wallet with little photos.
  These are nice ones, and you get great sound at first, but again, they break if you even think mean things about them.
Simply removing the battery and then replacing it fixes the issue, but it's annoying.
 This seems obvious but the flaw lies herein: the instruction booklet tells users to charge their iPods 2 - 4 hours before initial use.
I have ripped over 100 songs from my CD collection and it was so easy and fast, and they all sound great.
perhaps the weirdest was one of bruce springsteen 's cds from the tracks set being classified as goth rock .
Also if you want to purchase music, its just .79cents per track ..... Here is my origianl review...." My wife already had the Ipod Mini when I purchased this, and I must say seeing it in action, I had some reservations about getting a Zen.
i found using the supplied mediasource software very easy .
I also think that if you are going to offer them in different colors then commit all the way and have the entire device in that color, not just the front and color the head phones as well.
i did that and re-installed the software but had the same error .
you 're talking totally different hardware .
If your battery dies and it's still under warranty, guess what, you're out of luck, because Apple doesn't cover the battery in the iPod warranty.
I am now staring at an array of stuff including Zen Micro player, stereo earbud headphones, a rechargeable lithium-ion battery, an AC/DC power adapter, a USB 2.0 cable, a belt-clip, a stand, a stylish cloth pouch, an installation CD, a quick-start guide, and Creative MediaSource software.
no line out jack - as i said , there is none .
All of this said [as it's on it's way back to Amazon], the one song it did include provided far better sound than the IPOD.
so far i 've only had it since christmas , so i cant tell you much about the battery life .
i would recommend this product to anyone .
It's been in my pocket, in my car, and in my bag in 20 inches of snow and 100 degree summers.
way less expensive than the ipod .
you have to add all the songs to a play list .
ive seen em all , the archos , dell , ipods , everything ... good price and great sound makes this one the best in my opinion .
They obviously have quality and reliability problems.
3 . that 's pretty much all the negatives the positive things truly outnumber the negatives , and the negatives are n't that bad .
no complaints there .
well to say , i had a very bad history with players .
1 . the size is a little bit bigger than the ipod , and it weighs a little bit more .
i recently bought this after my archos 20 multimedia self-destructed ( do n't get me started on that piece of junk ! ) and expected it to be flawless .
Even when I set it to low, it's still very hard for me to adjust the player to where and what I want it to do.
the eax features are pretty cool , as well , as creative has included a number of eq adjustments that , for example , compensate for the extraneous noise encountered in a car or on a train .
it referred to a " microsoft jet database engine " error and the install program suggested i download a service pack from the ms website to fix the problem ;
I loved the Zen Micro, and thus it pains me to say this, but I have a hard time recommending something, when I've had two of them break on me in such a short time of owning them.
 The back of the iPod is in a chrome finish, and this surface is prone to scratches.
Actually, the Creative Zen Micro solves all that.
it 's nothing major , just a bad hard drive , any hard drive mp3 player can have that problem .
3 ) the case hides the display - you have to open it to see what you are doing .
3 . it 's a hazard in the car .
At least, that is, while it's still alive.
both are very easy to learn & use , and intuitive enough for even a novice .
the leather case it comes with is pretty nice , similar to a pda style case and does hold and protect it perfectly .
The sound is amazing.
you can customize bass , etc. like usual , but also you can customize the sound of the player ( like how it would sound in a concert hall , jazz club , etc ).
and labels it before you burn the CD into the Zen.
i was a little concerned to be the black sheep buying this player instead of the incredibly overpriced apple i-pod .
They said the repair could take weeks, and being impatient, I decided to just order another one, 1 day delivered from Amazon, and then I could have two, one for at work and one for at home.
Enjoy!
I like some local stations, Stern, and NPR, and so the radio seemed like a great option.
i did already have mediasource installed due to owning the creative audigy 2 soundcard but i did need to re-install it from the supplied cd as the older version did not have the connector to the zen .
( 28 not 30 because software itself takes space ) .
  DURABILITY: Not good. First problem, if you haven't seen the news recently, the iPods are being recalled for battery problems and not lasting the advertised 18 months.
i do n't think so .
if you are n't into paying $ x00 to learn and experiment , or the cons outweigh the pros , then wait a year or so .
if you decide to encode at 320 you will fit less on this device than someone who encodes at 128kps .
I had ordered a customized one from Apple.com, so I couldn't exchange it.
the player hangs up on file transfer every once-in-a-while , prompting a reset .
 I had to send it in for repair, and it took six weeks to get a replacement back to me.
i got this player for christmas & this was my first time using an mp3 player .
I have trashed this product on other opinion sites based on this major flaw alone.
it 's easy .
creative also sells batteries via its website , so there 's no shipping off my player and waiting for it to be sent back to me with the new battery .
 Pros: Large Hard Drive for the $$-- 20GB and 40GB are both affordable.
+ screen was good , easy to read
  THE PROS  The bad ends here, because as far as I'm concerned the rest of...well...everything concering the iPod is an enormous PLUS!
naturally i did quite a bit of review before purchasing ( i recomend www.nomadness.net ) , and price-wise zens are unbeatable .
 I have less than 3 GB worth of music, and I don't have any more music in my collection.
i had no problems following their installation instructions .
With so many choices it was a tough decision.
 The iPod batteries can go through a full recharge cycle 400 times.
i was able to easily copy 2gb worth of video files from my computer , and then transfer them to a friend 's .
easy enough to navigate through , although i 'd prefer a sturdier button besides the thumbwheel scroll / pushbutton .
i have to rip everything as a 160 kbps wma file ( as opposed to 128 kbps mp3 ) to avoid hearing digital garbling .
 The list is endless.
i was planning on getting an ipod , but i changed my mind last minute ... mostly because of the whole battery issue , i do n't have the patience for those sorta things .
That was before the Zen Micro came along.
the sound is excellent , but a tip : get a real pair of headphones .
that isn't saying much, but hey, I like to be positive.
i have done a lot of research before i decided to buy the nomad zen xtra .
this almost made it worth the price alone .
some may complain that there 's no drag-and-drop capability , but what they should realize is that this is mainly a portable music player , not a computer accessory or hard drive .
but because a few fine men and women took the time to create the upstanding rockbox software , the archos became a top notch player for me with intuitive features out the wazoo .. .
It's nice that the Zen Micro has bells and whistles like FM (but where's AM???) and voice recording, and 20% more storage than "the other" mini MP3 player, but why is it so (...)ugly?
(iTunes being an exception of course).
first , the cons ... a tad bulky ... not the most asthetic looking player ... and does n't support a folder stucture .
This feature wo!
it only took about 30 minutes to download everything , and that was about 950 songs .
as a portable player , it should feel a bit more durable .
took me a few tries to get use to the navigation , but it 's a very user friendly player imo .
Amazing.
zennx 's replaceable battery was the deciding factor in my purchase of zennx over ipod .
now heres the stuff you should know starting with the good things : the screen is really big and the blue light in the back is perfect , fast as hell in music transfer , controls are easy to use after mastering the scroll button , great sound and ive heard many mp3 players , a ton of different equilizer type deals on here .
very simple to use .
so once i worked out the problem with the software this mp3 player is worth the money it cost .
The software with the iPod includes iTunes, which allows you to play the music on your computer, rip CDs onto your computer, and move your music from the computer to the iPod.
plugged it in .
) Creative, Inc. the maker includes the barest of the bare minimum in the box, then through gross profiteering nickles and dimes you on EVERY single accessory at extraordinarily inflated prices.
so if you have xp , be prepared for this and do n't be alarmed .
pros :
also , you can store data on it , which is a plus. for all you people who want to buy an ipod just to say you have an ipod , do n't bother , this is a much better buy .
A bargain $200.
You might change the battery once before the iPod is superceded by something a lot better and less expensive.
 I love scrolling through the menus - that may sound strange but that's how FUN using the iPod actually is!
I loved this thing.
Its just as fast as the included Creative software, but much less invasive, and overall better looking.
*	The 20 GB version doesn't actually have 20 GB, but 18.5 GB, which makes a difference of roughly 300 songs. *
great price .
The Zen was an impressive purchase and I would highly recommend it to anyone using Napster.
thank you !
a good player at a great price with terrible software that makes ripping and transferring way more difficult than it should be .
Not because I wanted to go against the grain, but the idea of having to shell out another 100 bucks (after a year) in order to have Apple replace the non-removable battery just turned me off.
is this possible to fix , if so how , if not does notmad explorer from red chair software do this ?
I'm less than satisfied.
accessing files by artist and album ( i mostly look things up by artist ) is easy and intuitive .
Read the next six mixed pros and cons: .
get one now !
I wanted something more portable, shirt-pocket sized, and something to complement the new Yahoo Music Unlimited site.
i only have one question , when i add tracks to my nomad , via nomad explorer , they are automatically put in alphebetical order , rather than album order .
I have not yet used all the features, like the calendar, etc, but as a music player this little thing rocks.
otherwise , be smart , save the cash .
 I'm sure future generations of the iPod will be able to carry much more, probably even videos.
but this is * not documented * in the zen manual - neither the hard copy nor the cd version .
c. i do love audio sync which allows a one-click synchronization between the player and the music collection on the computer .
ITunes can be downloaded from the enclosed CD or for free from the Apple site.
i still have over 19gb left , and already have over 200 cd 's on it .
I know what you are thinking.
buy new ones asap. every time you move your face or something they pop out .
if the casing of the player is this bad , i can 't image that the hardware is of very good quality .
i really do recommend this to anyone in need of a new player .
i just bought one and returned it as defective for good reason .
This year, it seems that I choose my timing perfectly, having discovered the awesome device that is the Zen Micro.
It comes loose after 3 months-give or take-of careful use.
i 've got 1200 songs on it now and about 4000 more to go .
Overall I'm incredibly impressed with my new Zen Touch.
i really have no complaints over this unit .
those who have had the nomad for a few weeks are mostly thrilled with it .
this player is an overall disappointment with a couple of big flaws that potential buyers should be wary of ; and all readers need to know about a third party software company that resolves virtually all of the creative mediasource file transfer issues .
The player is smaller than you think.
It may be that the next Creative product is complete junk, but you should make product decisions based on product attributes NOW, not based on a halo effect of an idealized company (Apple) or other pointless loyalties.
using this method , i have not once encountered a situation where a track was rejected , and i have plenty of duplicate tracks on live and compilation albums .
i purchased this player last week .
i would have liked to be able to see what is playing without having to open the case .
I get occasional hiss while driving.
 The iPod package comes with everything you need, the AC adaptor, firewire cable (quicker than USB, but slower than USB 2 which it also gives), those snazzy and powerfull headphones, and of course the player.
The Creative Zen Micro is a Zen Micro killer, not an Ipod killer.
The player itself is tiny , it gets a bit bulky when you put it in the hardcase, which you need to do if you don't want to get scrathes on the back(its a nice looking back too ).
like other reviewers , installation was hell .
it's a neutral feature in my book.
As opposed to the Nomad II or any other flash based player, the songs load extremely fast...about one or two seconds per song.
i have an older computer , running windows 98 se , and so those of you with something more recent would find the process even quicker .
I just close the program down first, wait for the message to appear on the Micro, then unplug it.
if you do n't have tags , it 'll lump all of your tracks into the same directory and they cannot be searched via artist or album as the zen does not recognize folders .
i find it pretty easy to use ... and unlike the remote interface for the audigy 2 nx ( on the pc ) .. .
But after a few firmware releases it's working without a hitch.
It also has a voice recorder and FM radio that you can only get on an Ipod if you but an adapter seperately.
The touch pad is over-sensitive, and is adjustable to only slightly oversensitive.
 You can also use it as an external hard drive to back-up documents, photographs, etc.
cons :
recommendations :
it will not load any further songs on and customer service has no idea what to do .
a $ 300 device and they skimped on the headphone jack ?
i have no complaints with this mp3 player .
Not to mention that everyone else at the office has an IPod, so I was kinda' hoping for a good alternative.
iTunes is a great piece of software, and you can also buy songs from the iTunes Store at 99 cents per download.
it would only transfer 30 or so songs , and then come up with an error .
get better headphones .
usability ( button usage , feature selection , menu structure , display size and quality ) also has good feedback .
- price : see above .
After much research I decided that the Zen Micro was the best mp3 player for me.
One reviewer made what *I thought* was a good point about the volume not having an independant control and being buried in a menu, but must not have spent very long with the player because if you slide your finger up or down the center touch button during a song, the volume goes up or down accordingly.
OVERALL: I highly dislike the iPod, even though the sound quality and design is above-average.
after i went through the transer issue , i returned the zen xtra and purchased the 40 gig ipod .
Set the sensitivity of the touch pad to LOW.
after investigating a multitude of player options , i asked for and received the 60 gb zen xtra for christmas .
when i played back a symphony orchestra you would swear that you were seated dead center in front of the orchestra - it 's that good !
I also have been using it as a USB device, which just tickles me no end.
On the one hand, you have the ability to store and plays over 1000 songs on one little piece of machine.
  THE CONS OF THE IPOD  There are a few advantages to the Nitrus.
if you want a sexy , cool , accessory-availible mp3 player , by all means , get an ipod for a hundred dollars more ( or one for the same price that holds 1/3 of the music ) .
UPDATE March 3rd, 2005: I bought my Dark Blue Zen Micro back in November, when they first came out.
* software is absolutely terrible :
i tried to make sense of the file transfer program and just got more confused .
Remember mp3 format lets you store tons of songs.
the scroll bar is a bit of a pain .
I already own the Creative Nomad Zen, the 30 gig version.
If you want to purchase a real case or container or clip-on carrier for you Zen Micro, expect to purchase it separately and to dish out big time. .
it is exceedingly simple to navigate around in this device .
sound quality is wonderful , i really like the smart volume sound normalization .
The photos don't do it justice.
Why not join the iPodders like the rest of the world?
the ipod 's white plastic look / surface does n't suit me .
The interface, while a bit confusing at first, is very easy to navigate after about 15 minutes.
two months ago , an internal part failed ( not due to customer abuse ; it just failed ) .
The interface takes 2 secs after you press record to show up but its actually started recording at the moment you press record.
 To be sure, I am not looking forwards to paying for the battery replacement, whenever that may come.
best in class.
If you want to recharge it, you MUST connect it to your computer.
Burning CDs from iTunes is much easier than the Windows Media Player, which I was previously using.
included - charges via USB, so whenever you plug it into your computer, it's charging up.
So far I have used all of the above-mentioned features, and find them well designed, and easy to understand.
	Pure And Simple, Wonderful Stuff.
the sound from the player is ok .
 This type of service is one that Microsoft is touting...  one where you pay a flat rate per month for unlimited music downloads.
this will cause the discs not to show up together when you are looking for them on the nomad .
Freebies you get: A cradle with detachable stand and belt clip, some thing very handy and useful.
this meant that i had to take all my cds and do in a fairly short period of time what i had done over a year at work .
again , the ipod is a beautiful thing to look at and touch , player controls are less functional .
get those mp3s off your hard drive , save space , and enjoy your massive music library .
however , the creative lab did come out new update to fix their software problems .
( throw a cell phone and you 're asking for trouble . ) 3a .
Confused yet? Don't be.
i then installed the software manually instead , after having to click past about 5 windows of " please register with us so we can spam your inbox " .
i am disappointed and looking elsewhere for something that can withstand the " rigor " of a business traveler .
 I recommend Shures (shure.com).
otherwise , you 'll have to mess around a lot with filenames inside the ( decent ) nomad explorer , which is not fun at all .
I returned my 20G iPod 7 months ago and got a Gmini instead.
Again, the headphone jack on this thing is garbage.
there are not a lot of good options out there .
well just one con - its not really plug and play at first i mean its very confusing to start the program but one you do it , it will be a breeze .
How did we listen to music before it?
i think the whole zen line has been fairly innovative and reasonably priced , but it 's not really appropriate to compare the pricing of the zen line to the ipods ( although , the ipod is still way over priced ) .
cons .
I found that to be the most impressive thing about the iPod 'mini' - basically for ease of use, and the feel it gives.
if you have the appetite choose the one that you think has the least deficiencies or is best suited to you .
4 .
the display is awesome , you can see everything you want and read it clearly
After hearing about the new Napster service for portable MP3 players, I was anxious to try it out.
12 hours is about average, and it has an AC adapter in the box, with quick charge (2 hours) at probably 80%... and 4 hours for a full charge.
it also has unproven battery life .
pick it up from the store.
it does n't have firewire , not a real complaint since most windows users do n't generally have firewire cards themselves .
Flawless.
awesome feature .
about 10 % of the time it can 't find the device when i attach it to my pc .
If one battery drains just snap the spare one and you are back in bussiness.
Do your research; check !
the top of the player is a thin metal piece that covers up the battery and is removable .
the way to fix this is to rename the track by adding a number yourself to the end of the track listing .
ipod clearly has the most buzz .
2 ) storage capacity
many reviewers refer to it as " clunky " or " difficult " - heed their warnings .
games are ok for a cell phone , but mp3 's are for music .
i just bought this player today and i already love it .
for most people , they can carry around all or almost all of their music collection .
you need the software to actually transfer files
Battery : A Big Big plus.
usb 2.0 - very fast
how did this gigantic flaw go unnoticed by creative ?
if it had the same number of " ? " s then it would ask if you want to overwrite another song that just had the same number of " ? " s. . .
everyone complains about the non-replaceable battery , yet this is the price of sturdy construction .
updating the unit 's firmware :
Then last week, my player just quit working, period.
cons :
$190 or $200 or less would have been much more reasonable (price compareble to 20gb mp3 players).
[+][s]
a lot of people complain about the creative software , but i actually find creative mediasource organizer to have some strengths over itunes .
looking at the glowing reviews from people that have had this for a week or two , i kind of wish people would wait until they 've had a product a little while to review it .
Screen review could be better.
this is a powerful piece of equipment .
 The ipod itself is very pleasing to hold with its smooth surfaces.
Also, the touchpad seems to be waterproof to some degree.
otherwise , it is difficult to figure out and awkward .
The colors are a joke, and I personally hate the stupid vertical touchpad.
my biggest complaint is the battery life or lack there of .
 The user support service isn't too great either.
there is n't need to get in details again , but just remember it rocks because : price , sound , ease of use , and features .
A lot of this has to do with being so excited when you first get it that you get beside yourself and have to force yourself to slow down.  ;)  I love the shuffle function, which virtually eliminates the need to touch it at all.
it was n't as easy to fast forward or pause a song than it was with a regular walkman .
i must have differing preferences than others here , as i prefer the supplied earbuds to the sony 's that i thought sounded good on other players .
Otherwise, this is a great "alternative" MP3 player for those of use who don't want to worship the mighty all-powerful Apple.
the interface software itself , which should be user-friendly , was anything but easy-to-use .
They seem to be working on a fix and will probably sort it out soon.
It was one of those plastic glued containers that can take you thirty minutes to open.
was it a full moon that night ?
( i had no problems since i did this but there seem to be a couple of very bitter reviews further down - maybe they did not do this or maybe there are some very sad ipod owners since they all recomend it instead ) .
the pro ...
this means that you will have the nomad long enough to load a lot of music on to it , and get used to having it .
the only thing i do n't like about this is the cover does suck .
7 .
to discover this i had to read about 10 online reviews ( with many complaints about the lack of stop button ) before i found one reviewer who was smart enough to both figure it out & document it .
The back of the player is nice too, with water ripples inside the clear white coating.
But unlike most fashion statements (if this could indeed be seen as one?) this concept is a logical one - the black cushions often cover up the letters on the earbuds that designate whether they're for your left or right ear.
 Overall, this product is AWESOME.
 The sound is just fine.
for the average music listener not expecting much ... this may be a satisfactory mp3 player ...
i like to play my music by album and the nomad jukebox plays the songs in the same order as the actual cd .
my opinions :
Here's the TRUTH in short....
i spent much time debating on whether i should go with the zen xtra or the ipod .
 Yep, the iPod.
Now, about the iTunes.
anyway, here's the pros and cons:  +linux compatible with the 1.x series of firmware.
it 's very solidly built , and has a nice dense feel to it .
I threw it away.
you can also search for your song , which is good .
In addition, I do not think the battery lasts much more than eight to ten hours, and it can take four hours for a full charge.
 I used it mainly on shuffle play and shut off the "click" sound to get this much life out of it.
i cant do anything about it , and i have to send back .
Stopping going in circles and get to the point.
FM tuner & Microphone : Having a tuner in the player is a blessing.
price !
  The ease of use of the iPod is a major attribute.
like others have mentioned , you can manage to hear new things in songs even though they 're on lower bit levels .
now getting back to this .
POSITIVES:  Reasons for getting the Zen Micro instead of the iPod:  1.
at the very least , a sturdier more protective carrying case would be nice .
highly recommended !
over and over again.
transfering is easy , the software makes everythig pretty easy .
i got mine for $ 160 less than the ipod 30gb ( got an extra $ 30 off for applying for an amazon visa ... thanks amazon ! )
this thing seriously is a good player though .
I have a lot of songs that I need to download.
 I set my sights on this super sexy iPod and didn't stop until I finally had one in my hands.
(Like I really wanted "Hotel California" anyway.
Now, there are many alternatives to the Ipod, but I wanted a nice design, also, and not some generic looking mp3 player.
once you start sending files , it 'll continue until it 's done or it hits a song that has the same title as another song ... at which point you can skip , skip all , replace , replace all , or cancel .
I visited quite a few forums and while the iPod is a great player I was concerned with the battery life and the inability to change them without breaking open the case.
For years I've downloaded songs and burned CDs, but I decided to simplify my life and get an mp3 player.
No big deal.
An extra gig of room, FM radio, voice recorder, PIM applications with sync to Outlook.
the price compared to the ipod is great .
i loved it until it broke , but less than a month is not an acceptible period of time for something to work .
mp3 players of this kind of memory are typically small and light and have between 64 mb - 1.5 gb of memory .
the zen serves as a back-up device as well as a player .
2.
Actually only three players are on the list for Napster To Go.
Have not had any issues with the headphones or fragility.
  I would strongly recommend the iPod over rival mp3 players such as the Creative Zen and the creatively named iRiver.
The flaw is in the circuit board that the headphone jack is connected to.
i 've had the player for about a month now .
Nobody has clearly articulated what exactly about the Ipod mini makes it better than this product.
i purchased and returned this product , but not because of any glaring flaws in the design .
The light pulsates when you are charging it almost as if it were breathing.
the buttons and interface are very easy to use .
i just sold my archos 20gb jukebox recorder after not being satisfied with it 's slow loading & difficult navigation , not to mention it froze quite a bit .
i spent $ 269 for my 30gb zx , compared to the $ 299 for a 10gb ipod and the also expensive iriver ihp-120 .
Most people complain about the sensitivity, but it can easily be adjusted for personal preference.
if you want to be a poser and follow the herd , mooooooh , then buy the i-pod .
i got my zen xtra a little bit more then a week ago .
i have a lot of files in wma so that was the biggest factor in my decision to purchase the zen.
i would replace them with some better sounding and more comfortable phones .
a similarily priced 15gb ipod would n't have been nearly enough room .
the system is terrific in size and design , imo looking better than the ipods .
i have had it lock up after a transfer of music .
 The thing is, naturally you're going to use your iPod at the gym or whatever, and it can be a bit of a liability because you always feel like you have to protect it.
I was worried about what the sound quality would be like, but that seems to be just as good as the actual CD sound.
I looked at the market extensively and took a lot of advice before making the big buy here.
the player : it 's silver .
i am a soldier serving in baghdad right now .
 Maybe because it doesn't have a lot of skins to choose from like WMP, but then again, I dislike WMP as well because it's slow on my computer.
after fiddling around with it for a while , i notice a few dissapointments :
 LOOKS AND DURABILITY: I realize many people are fond of the minimalist white interface.
 They are EXTREMELY convient and you don't have to buy them seperately Has I-Tunes, which provides qulity music at low prices.
fm receiver - it has none .
Creative should hire some real industrial designers.
these are the things I was curious about when I was shopping around.
I tried the help menu that referenced GUI buttons that don't exist on my version.
I tried to figure out another way to load the songs and attempted another upgrade with no results.
instead of an iPod (I know this is a tediously recurring theme in these reviews, but I want to get my two cents in) was the FM radio.
I'm probably the only person that dislikes the iTunes software.
one good thing , it is 40 gb of disk space ( well , it is 38 gb in reality ) .
however , it did motivate me to find a work-around solution .
that 's a huge difference ... especially in this price range .
 We can start by losing the shiny miracle-material cover that you can literally scratch just by looking at it wrong, and thus eliminate the need for third-party "iSkin" protective covers for an extra thirty bucks.
the storage capacity is great for me --
Would be FIVE STARS, except for MAJOR FLAW
Just in case, I bought a two-year extended warranty for about 15% of the purchase price of the player.
here 's why :
It's too bad, though, that !
do not underestimate this in your purchase decision .
Overall, the Micro is a solid device and I haven't fell into a problem with it yet *knocks on wood*.
This is only a problem at night, during the day the screen is very easy to see.
I must say, after tons of research, I have chosen the right Mp3 player.
 Maybe this new design is more durable than the last, but I kind of doubt it.
Most of the other players I checked dont have user servicable battery.
If your looking for a great sounding mini player, you can't go wrong with the Zen Micro.
from there , you transfer files from your computer to the mp3 player ( with the help of the media sniffer .. . read the manual ).
navigation is easy and i found that syncing files from the player to the computer ( and vice versa ) was easy too .
case - the nomad comes with a leather holding case .
 I had initially been planning on buying this or another Apple product, but since decided to buy a player made by a different manufacturer.
Since then, I have been a devotee of the elegant styling and functionality of all things Apple.
  The thing has survived plenty of falls with little or no damage, except the inevitable scratches.
zens rule .
the environmental audio , however , is almost completely useless and has made most of my songs sound worse than without it ( i encode my songs at 192-256 kbps without variable bit rates . )
if you are planning to buy that player , do not !
  I use mine mostly at the gym, so this is fantastic for me.
i transfered all 16 gigs in 15 minutes without any errors via firewire .
Product Of The Decade
i loved this product when i first got it - great sound , easy to use ( even though i agree that the software was n't the best ) and held enough songs to suit any mood .
What is the conjunctive probability that each successive product release will be without flaws or that the company isn't having turnover in the R&D department (or making bad management decisions)?
the software failed repeatedly .
you just get used to it after a while.
just highlight the songs you want to transfer from your playlist or music library then click one button and it 's done !
 Its steel backing picks up fingerprints and scratches easily, not great from a cosmetic standpoint.
However, I have found that converting my CD's and MP3's into the iTunes library fo!r upload takes a fairly annoying chunck of time.
But my biggest gripe is still the extremely ugly design.
Bottom line.
you need your computer , however , if you want to add tracks to a playlist .
i downloaded the trial version , and after less than 10 minutes of using it , decided it was well worth the price .
i have had mine for a month now and have to say i have enjoyed it .
so far so good , no problems , no conversions .
scroll button - the scroll wheel was a nice idea to keep less clutter , but the button would sometimes get stuck or keep scrolling .
the program is called Gnomad and works great for me and seems to cover all the features the included windows sofware does.
if you 're a jogger and you want to strap it to your arm , i 'd recommend flash memory .
the cd will be classified into a number of genres , and in multidisk sets , you can get separate classifications for different disks by the same artist and the same performance .
And it's easily connected to a Linux or FreeBSD machine for loading and unloading files, so I can also retire my ZIP drive.
I would give the Creative Zen Micro five stars without hesitation...except for the eight hours of my life I can never get back.
i had all my files already on my pc in wma format ( 200 cd 's ).
The software is very easy to use, and the transfer is super fast!
The flaw is inside the Zen.
battery life is about 1/4 of that advertised , no operators manual available for any of the nomad zen players ( on or off-line ) , occasional software lockups , replacement battery is expensive
and those songs mostly are 320 kbps.
there was no distortion and it sounded great , especially with eax environmental audio enabled .
 As I said, I don't regret the purchase at all.
 It sounds 10 times better if you use the little black foam cushions that slip over the buds.
btw , be sure to have your mp3 tags labled correctly , as this will ensure a great organization .
i received this as a gift .
again , you can change this , but it 's harder to spot a minor variation in the title when you do n't have the title of the other disk in front of you .
if i 'd been paying attention , i would have noticed the 3 month warranty .
having my entire music collection is great when travelling ( both on plane and car trips ) and i do n't have to decide what to bring or copy onto the player -- it 's all there .
If you call apple and tell them your ipod has been damaged, they charge you roughly $105.50 per minute and blame you for "abusing" your ipod.
IN SUMMARY: This is a good, basic player.  It's not for everyone, and if you're in the market for one I suggest that you try to put aside the huge popularity of the iPod and look harshly at the actual features that the other players on the market have, and see how they stack up.
it also covers over the power jack when closed .
In the meantime, users will obviously begin to install their software - and since the charger takes up the underbelly of the iPod and USB connection to the computer, it's impossible to hook it up to your PC during installation without unplugging the charge adapter and actually turning the iPod on - which we're not supposed to do for 2 - 4 hours!
notmad by red chair software is an explorer-based program that enables simple drag-and-drop transfer of music files from pc to zennx .
this is nothing new , every mp3 player , memory card , etc. , used for digital media today has some kind of preloaded operating software on it .
the sound is great , and the volume is more than satisfactory for commutes and shutting out external noise .
The FM tuner, the 5G of storage, and the removable disk are all great features.
Many other reviewers are mentioning that they have had no problems at all> I would say that the main problem is that this player is just not made very well.
that 's all for now .
up , down , left , and right would have given me better control .
much cheaper than i-pod good looking player ( beautiful blue back-lit screen ) if you 've read about the player , some have complained about the lack of a viewing hole for the face when the case is on , but this is good because the face does n't get damaged / scratched fast transfer rate
I'm a new to mp3 players.
2 .
bookmarks for example , are an excellent feature ... but not on this player .. .
it was marked up increadably high compared to other models ( almost $ 500 for a 30gb ) , and theres was nothing about it that made it worth that much money .
you can also create your own if you do n't like their classifications .
another irriation is that if you hold the scroll button down for too long , it keeps going past the song you may have wanted to stop on .
Next I wanted to update the software, after a quick firmware upgrade the player was ready to go.
I wanted a player that had good capacity, construction that can stand up to exercise, good sound quality, good battery life, good looks, compatibility, and a fair price.
update : apple recently announced that for $ 107 , it will replace the battery in ipods shipped to their factory .
come on, at $ 300 they could at least put in a good pair of earphones .
i got 6000 mp3's you'll never register or gay up.
 To adjust the volume, you just sweep your finger lightly along the click  wheel.
I purchased this over the Ipod Mini because it had several nice features: extra 1G storage, WMA support, replaceable battery, and especially that it wasn't an Apple product with their proprietary architecture.
the zen is an outstanding way to shuttle music between sources , you can 't do this on the ipod ( except for a cumbersome work-around using the ipod as a hard drive instead of a player ) .
overall i like the unit .
you can sort your music by artist , title , album , or genre , and you can play music based on those categories .
the size is small ( just a little bit bigger than an i-pod . )
On the whole, I'm quite happy with the purchase.
Again, this is a design flaw in the headphone!
Those are minor complaints though.
On the downside, I think the interface takes some getting used to and the Zen software !
hopefully , this player will out sell the ridculously over-hyped i-pod .
the batteries would not charge .
This makes the Zen Micro the first choice for MP3 owners with a Windows-based system.
the less computer-saavy might find apple 's software a bit friendlier , though ( i use it at a friend 's house and it does do a lot more for you . )
the player has firmware , which will remove the glitches , if there are any .
It's doesn't have a scroll wheel, but it has a strip!
Napster 2 Go also allows members to view other members play lists in different genres, so if you are looking for lots of songs and you don't want to search for them endless, you can just grab them from other members play lists. !
I have visited multiple websites, and for virtually EVERY new hard-drive-based mp3 player I find, there are always user reviews that smash the new player and say something like "Just go buy an Ipod!"
That may be due to the fact that I used the menus a lot, and had it hooked up to the Griffin iTrip (The iTrip works great) for most of that time.
The radio works excellent in my area, I'm not sure everywhere else.
Here's a quote from Creative's web site (hoping to sell additional batteries):   "Carry an extra rechargeable battery for your Zen Micro for an additional 12 hours of nonstop music."
I have wanted one for a long time, but just didn't want to spend the money.
- equipment included is average , but that is n't a big deal since thats not what you are buying it for .
removable and cheap battery - a li battery usually works properly for 1-3 years .
To use the Creative Zen player with a subscription service, you need to go to Creative's web site, and download new software for your PC.
The Zen Micro is near perfect.
I had been eyeing the Creative Zen Micro 5GB as I researched various players.
the navigation is nice enough , but scrolling and searching through thousands of tracks , hundreds of albums or artists , or even dozens of genres is not conducive to save driving .
for once , though , this 3rd party software is excellent .
there 's no so-called background hiss that i 've noticed , at least so far .
It is the 'first generation' of the player, and while I still agree that it is a great alternative to the iPod, I think there are many others that would be a much better value for your buck.
I absolutely love it.
with my sennheiser 497 headphones , the volume is loud enough at 12 ( max is 20 ) .
No more Cds and your cd player getting broken when you step on it in your car or any other place
I finally decided to purchase this player because it was compatible with Napster 2 Go....which is a subscription service, allowing me to download as much music as I want for a $14.95 flat fee.
by broken i mean that it would no longer transmit sound.
 Organizing music is a breeze too.
i would 've still bought this drive even if i knew about this issue beforehand .
not sure , if customer rep. did not know the product exactly , it is still new or they just give an anser which users would like to hear .
have had the player since xmass and love it !
 I use it to listen to language tapes and to play "Earl" by the Dixie Chicks incessantly.
and also , it 's priced very affordably .
since the ipod lacks this review feature on its auto-sync and it only allows one-way transfers , the first time i connected my ipod to my laptop , i wiped out the 20gb of music i had transferred from my desktop to the ipod .
To use a bas!
it did not lock up my computer or require a reboot .
the zx boasts superior sound quality than the ipod , however it compromises a bit of the unit 's size in doing so .
it always pays off .
And all you do is select all the tracks in the iTunes playlist and drag them to the File Explorer window.
like most people , i do n't want to read the instructions , i just want to use it .
you can change any of these , but need to be paying attention when the information is downloaded before you copy it .
my initial reaction was to tap the up and down arrows, when in reality, you need to touch, maintain contact and slide your finger up and down.
wow .. .
the battery is replaceable ( a real plus ) and there is a leather case ( another real plus ) .
the 30gb zen xtra rocks my socks , spills my beer , but does n't wash my car .
i 'll state up front that i do not own a zen xtra and have not used one at all .
Apple's iPod battery replacement service costs $100!
The box included a little polyester, pull-string BAG, (yes, you read right a BAG, something a boy would carry ten marbles in) and tries to pass it off as the case.
the software is very easy to use , and within 30 minutes of opening my box , i was out and about listening to any one of my 80 cds .
sound :
if you are going to need a player that is rugged this may not be the one for you .
But, the Creative Zen Micro is plagued by a serious, serious stupid and elemenatary design flaw, and I'm going to tell you what it is...But first, two more things about this piece of garbage that's so great and could've made it a potenial IPOD killer.
i did n't abuse it , i charged it every day , but the headphone jack just sort of fizzled out .
but with a low price , comes lower quality .
note : about 2gb ( 5 % ) of the advertised 40gb of storage capacity is used for the operating software ( firmware ) .
4 .
I hope you enjoy your I-Pod!
now let 's talk about the software .
the cd ripping to mp3 is so easy , and you can even rip the cd directly to the mp3 player , so it wo n't take up space on your pc hard drive .
Creative has put a lot of effort into making this player appeal to those true geeks that search for coolness and functionality in electronic devices.
If someone asked me flat out, i'd say to go with something else.
i chose this one because from what i read , it was the best deal for the money .
in principle playlists, album names, artist names, etc would help you organize but this only works IF your tracks have all the necessary data; mine do not.
pros :
Oh, and another is the cool "halo" light that surrounds the touch pad, and light's up when you touch the screen, and how the light glows when the Zen is connected to the computer.
They also sound excellent compared to other earbuds including retail sets like Panasonics and Sennheisers.
I also like the lock feature, so it makes the touch pad inactive.
 Mac is really big on streamlining everything (maybe that's why you never get a decent manual with any of their products).
i have my mp3 's stored on my workstation .
slowly yet surely my unit engorged as i read my own review , similar to when i look in the mirror .
The bass is deep and the treble is clear.
 The only other problem I have noticed is that on some uploads it will switch around CD song titles (all on the same artist, it just mixes up the titles).
there is an alarm , i still havent used it yet , but it should be good .
can 't beat carrying 500-cd collection with me wherever i go .
the music is easy to get to ( all of the menus are easy to understand despite what alot of i-pod owners say ) and if you know how to search for an artist by name online , then you can do the same with the zen .
lastly , the price is fantastic :
since the zen xtra does not use a folder structure , the " duplicate name " problem stems from the actual file name , not from the song 's title / artist / album .
The main issue now is that this new Zen Micro seems to be the best on the market at least temporarily.
Immediately you could tell a very distinct difference between the two Creative MP3 players.
 The one advantage the iRiver has is it can play wma files aswell as mp3s, unlike the iPod.
the one and most major thing that i was dissapointed with , in this player , is the battery life .
But enought of the negativity.
However, the Ipod does not come close to the number of extra features that the 'Zen Micro' has to offer.
Also, as soon as you select a song and set your desired volume level, put the player on HOLD.
 I have no clue why this happens, as they show up perfectly in my iTunes library and there was no interruption during the uploads.
I absolutely didn't want to by an Ipod.
within months they stopped supporting the new mac os .
 Wow iPod.
  The major change from the previous model, other than the extra 5G for the same price, is that this one is slightly smaller and lighter, and the already minimal buttons (menu, play/pause, forward and back) have now been assigned to the four quarters of the click wheel, so that even less brain power is required to search through your 10,000 stolen mp3s.
Two DVDs to capture all 2,400 tracks.
the buttons are easy to use , and its easy to navigate .
and for those that are intrested the recharger works anywhere in the world ( and is quite small ).
all in all this a great player that blows the i-pod away , with easy to use and understand features , software that is simple to understand and use , and a great sound ( which is all that matters in a mp3 player ) .
Their product may appear more enconomical, but it isn't in the long run. .
5 hours max. i did it like this
Strong Points: - Design: small, comfortable, curved, and stylish.
the interface used could be better designed .
You can use it to listen to music or audio books, either downloaded via the internet or added to your music library using your CD drive.
here 's where the ipod drives me nuts .
now i use ms mediaplayer , musicmatch ( free downladed ) , and " explorer / my computer / grab files from disk c or d into the player " to replace the mediasource .
i 'm not sure if it would survive a fall from 3 feet .
The iPods,like most Mac products, have a sophisticated but bland, look to them... Preferrably, I like some sass.
7 ) some people have problems with the flip switch on the bottom that releases the player cover - has not been an issue for me and is immaterial if you use the case as the case covers the switch .
:-)  www.zetazen.com
A lot of people are having problems with the firmware update required to use the player for Napster to Go.. The firmware is beta and they are are a lot of bugs in it.
The screen is clear and readable, and the touch pad works very well, it took me less than a day to get the hang of it, and now I like it better than having to click buttons or fiddle with a separate volume control.
when you turn on your player , the player turns on really fast , and the music continues to play , as you left it when you were turning it off .
creative tech support operators work 9-6 p.m. weekdays - as if i had time during work hours to spend time on this .
it is the most bang-for-the-buck out there .
i just got a 40gb ipod to replace my zen ( a 20gb model ) .
 I didn't think I would need more than the 5GB that the mini has, but... once I downloaded a few audio books on top of my CD's -- I'm GLAD I have the extra memory.
an ipod with the same amount of memory is $ 150 cheaper .
after i had it a couple weeks , it got into a state where it could never find the device , no matter how often i rebooted my pc , reset the device , reloaded drivers , etc , etc. creative 's online support was no help at all .
When most of us purchase these little devises, we do so because of their diminuitive size and extraordinary storage capacities.
further , the xtra doubles the maximum filecount capacity to 16000 mp3 .
It was also the most appealing.
zen allows you to scroll up and down the song list selected on the player .
 If you listen to the iPod four hours per day and you get 10 hours per recharge cycle (not the full twelve specified by Apple) then the iPod will give you over 2.5 years of daily listening.
that does n't leave me with a good feeling about its future stability .
great sound ; good interface ; replaceable , powerful battery ; good software ; wake-up , sleep timers ; multiple play modes
The life-span on it, though, is NOT as advertised, but if you're not a heavy user, you can tick in at 9-10 hours of playback.
for prospective buyers , i would warn of the following : 1 ) purchase a better pair of headphones as soon as possible , as earbuds sound terrible and are terribly uncomfortable ( this applies to earbuds in general , ) and 2 ) make sure that your mp3s have id3 tags on them , that when when they are loaded into the playlist they will automatically sort themselves .
Also If you want a device that does soo much more than the Ipod mini but is at the same price, this is the player for you.
Another good feature is that you can charge the battery by just connecting the player to your computer using the USB cable.
Songs transfer lightning fast, and the two batteries that came in my box give me 24 hours of listen time.
my two main requirements were longer battery life and lower price : i found both .
the zennx will keep running for the price of a replacement battery , just like any other battery-powered appliance .
i just used the explorer program to move my songs to my player .
I started looking at the Creative Zen Micro and after reading numerous reviews from message boards and magazines I decided I'd give the Zen a try.
If you send in your Zen to have the flaw fixed, you lose all of the music you've been loading into the thing for 2-3 months, which came out to 1022 songs and 80 albums for me.
In addition , iPods can be used as portable hard drives and can display your calendars and contact info.
i purchased it at a retail store , and got an extended warranty .
After that, you connect your Zen Micro and open My Computer.
not plug & play ; relies on id3 ; no fm or recording
navigation is so smooth and finding files is a cinch .
the dynamic playlists ( " now playing " , i belive creative calls it ) feels very awkward at times and some menus simply take to long to get to and operate .. .
i 've had it for a week now , do n't regret the purchase one bit , and i never leave home without it .
of course you do !
experience :
7 . mediasource did not install on my personal notebook .
You can transfer music from one PC to the other.
i bought the 30gb zen xtra from a well-known national electronics store as soon as i saw they were advertising it for $ 219.99 .
navigation is a bit tricky and takes getting used to but the included pdf instructions cover the operation pretty well .
 Another thing you should know, the metal on the flip side of the iPod is very tacky, and scratches very easily.
what is added in functionality ( battery replacement ) detracts in build quality as the face plate is prone to popping off .
that 's the first thing to understand .
i would suspect that there are similar problems with all of the other brands as this is somewhat new technology .
if you 're intrested in buying a spare battery it 'll run you another $ 50 , a little steep i thought .
 So far, in the month that I have had it, I have had to take it in for service twice.
the nomad jukebox zen xtra is a very good mp3 player but the software is it gets hurt .
the headphone earbuds are average , so just use your regular pair instead .
i havent used it much yet so i dont know if i will have the same problem; obviously i hope not.
Otherwise, I am extremely please with the Creative Zen Micro 5GB MP3 player.
sometimes when i get really lonely , i like to put on some kenny g and light some candles , and while this does n't help , i am a capitalist pig and like buying things too , nah mean ! ?
a tons of reveiws has reported this problem and the same here .
 If you want to know exclusively about the iPod, you'll find that here too!  RIO VS. IPOD  For Christmas I was given a Rio Nitrus (1.5 GB) and was extremely pleased with it.
Verdict:  Had I not needed something with a tad bit more space, I consider this player fair game.
i dont especially like how music files are unstructured; basically they are just dumped into one folder with no organization, like you might have in windows explorer folders and subfolders.
it has a few inconveniences : one is that the songs do not automatically play one after another like on a cd .
So Creative should be "Creative".
Creative did an awesome job with the design.
i had downloaded about 1000 songs and had room for another 9000 !
Battery life is exceptional, lasting longer than the 8-10 hours that seem reasonable with most music players on the market.
So I can't wait to get on my treadmill with it.
i have been ripping songs into it for the past few weeks , and the ease of use is wonderful .
my personal favorite is the karma ( i currently own a karma , a zen usb 2.0 , a philips hdd100 , and an upgraded 60 gig archos jukebox recorder ).
1 ) a spare battery would have been great .
  EASE OF USE/DESIGN: The iPod is a very easy to use MP3 player, and if you can't figure this out, you shouldn't even own one.
Thank you Apple!  You make fabulous products.
i bought the nomad when i went home on leave and it worked great for about a month .
 Dunno, possibly but you have to ask yourself what you are neccessarily paying for, which is 20GBs worth of storage capacity, which even if all your music is in high fidelity such as 320kpbs, there is still a whole lot of room to place much music in here.
i recently bought the nomad jukebox zen xtra , and did n't even get as far as charging the battery .
if that is for you then pay the money , learn from the experience and you 'll be a more informed buyer when you buy device # 2 .
so .. .
The Zen plays mp3, wma and wave formats, which makes it more versatile than the Ipod.
 Its sleek design, large memory capacity, compatibility with iTunes, and ease of use makes this one of the best portable digital listening devices on the market.
otherwise , this player is awesome !
the signal to noise ratio ( the ratio of detectable , useful data to unusable garbage in , say , a radio wave ; a larger stn ratio is better ) is nice and high at 98 decibles , and it should be noted that apple refuses to release the stn ratio of any of the ipods .
for me the sound of the music is what is important .
to my ears , a 160 kbps wma file sounds just as good as the source cd , and the zen xtra sounds just as good as a portable cd player .
when i bought it late last year , there were enough reviews that i knew the navigation wheel and software would be less than ideal , but it sounded like a fair tradeoff .
The clarity is unbelievable, which means you can cram almost the full 2,5!
now that i own it , however , i can 't imagine being without it !
awful , awful , awful .
 The product I rate five stars,
software definitely sucks , hangs up my notebook about half the time , but i do n't mind buying notmad .
also , the player sometimes freezes , not a very big problem , but can also be annoying .
Still, that's enough time that I'm still satisfied, if a bit grouchy with Creative's overhyped promises.
This 20GB just plays the songs, most people won't even use the 20GB space, I've got about 1500 songs on mine that adds up to nearly 13GB.
you discover this later when you 're listening to a song and it 's the wrong title , causing you to rename everything on your own .
One was the firmware upgrading from the installation CD and the second was regarding the "playforsure" (even though it's in BETA), to make sure I could use Napster 2 Go.
however , if anyone has participated in violent or extreme sports while using their zen , please share your experiences .
- large easy readable screen
i took perfect care of this player and still it died in the week after the lousy 90 day warranty ended .
But Amazon won't allow me to reduce the number of stars once I have already established three two days ago.
i was unable achieve a sound quality on par with my simple portable cd player with " bass boost . "
i cannot recommend it enough ! !
wow .
I find myself listening to the radio a lot.
some of the more geeky ( non-apple type ) reviewers complain that the scrollwheel is annoying after a while and they resent being forced into this apple-like interface .
i think this is it 's biggest flaw .
mp3 players have either flash card memory or a hard drive in them .
t simply the best player on the market for a really low price, so why look anywhere else?
3 ) use files with id3 tags - not a problem if your cds were ripped within the last year .
it costs like 200 dollars to replace - now you mail it off to get the battery replaced for like 99 .. .
Before you run out and buy an iPod, understand something: there are REASONS the Zen is worth encountering this kind of hassle, principally excellent (for MP3) sound quality.
cheaper to produce , holds a lot , heavier and has moving parts which means it 's a little more prone to damage from being banged around .
The actual experience of USING the iPod is magnificent.
neutral :
even the battery life is great - it advertises 14 hours , it 's actually a little less but still good .
actually using the nomad jukebox is easy and uncomplicated .
well in the beginning i was asking around for mp3 players .
the only complaint i have is that when you push in the scroll wheel to select , you have to push straight in or it sticks .
10 ) multiple play modes - tracks in order of album , shuffle , etc. , is standard on all jukebox players but worth noting that the zen xtra is not deficient in this matter .
- the unit is easy to use and intuitive .
) -Can't be left in the car... it immediately shuts down with an overheating error if left in a hot car for too long.
 held out for the 4th generation 20GB iPod when I heard that it was coming equiped with the 'click wheel', that had previously only been available for the iPod 'mini'.
sound settings can be adjusted for personal preference .
it is a little cumbersome to scroll through so many levels to get to the selection you want .
My big Zen has hundreds of CDs on it, but this little player will store my most listened to tunes, or songs Iwant to download for free from the Yahoo site, "test drive", then decide if I want to download permanently into my larger Creative.
a sliding old fashioned volume knob would also have been easier than the digital version that was included .
Why would they let anything compete with them when they are making millions from song downloads by iPod owners who have no other choice?
unboxed and charging up, visit the Creative website for necessary firmware and/or driver upgrades, especially if you're planning to use a service like Napster.
 Highly recommended for people who like to listen to music or audio books on the go.
Buy from another company and run from Creative, Inc.
started ripping and transferring .
Dont have to switch to another device for FM tuner.
Slow file transfers, menus that take ages to cycle through, and poor battery life plague many of the!
cons :
Cranking the master volume level up past the mark of the bar only leads to distortion and compromised sound quality.
only thing missing from creative is a cd burner .
So starting out i knew i wanted a windows friendly player.
Creative did well on its rechargeable battery feature. .
While I have not had the "privilege", as many call it, of owning an Ipod, based on the experience of friends who have had some misfortune with their Ipod (and subsequently purchased the Zen Touch or Zen Micro), I can pretty much rest assured that my decision to purchase the Zen Micro was one of the more informed ones.
Of course the first one I decided to research first was the Apple iPod.
so i contacted customer service at creative , but they said , " if the product seems broken , we cannot help , " or something to that effect .
In addition, I didn't like the fact that I'd have to pay $.99 for each song I wanted to download.
or better yet , buy from another company that stands behind their products with a 12-month warranty .
overall , this player is awesome and i definately recommend it .
i experimented with installing mediasource on 2 other computers at home and it worked fine .
- uploading music is quick and easy .
here 's a basic run-down from what i learned :
- best in class sound
left it set on my desk came back five minutes later and it just wanted to keep playing the same song over and over .
After installation, the very first time I booted up the Creative MediaSource Organizer, intending to use its CD burning and ripping functions, it totally shorted out.
the eax sound enhancement feature did n't do enough for me and the custom eq was a limited 5 band eq .
  20 GB OR 40 GB?  The pros of the 40 GB: Comes with a "dock station" and double storage space (10,000 songs).
00 song capacity of the disk without having to worry about the quality of your music (the Zen micro, actually starts off with about 4.7GB after loading the software).
The touchpad is annoying sometimes (give me the click-wheel and pressable buttons any day), but not at all as difficult to get over as other people are saying.
i guess that 's why you so often see " ipodders " bashing every other player out there ( very often not knowing anything about them the whole " i spent $ 120 more for something not any better and so should you ... so i can feel better " thing .
You get a USB cable headphones, a pouch, software except headphones you will like every thing else.
i found this to be a much easier method of transferring my music to the nomad than using their software .
use this for 18 months every day and see what happens , or look at a 2 year old electric razor and see if it holds the same charge as the first day you had it ) .
I wanted something that looked at least almost as good as an Ipod.
i have found that the interface on the nomad is very easy to use if you have a basic knowledge of a computer .
you can even skip that step and rip them directly from the cd to the player .
 If this sounds confusing, just make sure you have your iPod plugged in when you install the iTunes software!
 Problems with the sound quality were evident right away, but even I couldn't imagine they'd be that bad.
i did have some problems figuring out how to turn the unit on , but creative did a good job with this , as they had a clearly labled " on " button that i found when i left my cellar for the first time in years .
the zen has minimal stoppage between tracks ; when listening to music that continues from one track to the next the gap is just a hesitation - a slightly audible click ; if i am not listening for the progress from one track to the next i do n't even notice the click .
if it does , ill give up .
the pc quickly picked up on it and attempted to install the software , which failed , as creative chose not to follow microsoft standards , whatever .
You've earned a new fan.
conclusion :
you do n't have this problem if you make your playlist from the nomad , where cds are listed separately .
It fits into a hand well, it has a removable battery (this is important), great sound quality, fm stereo, recorder, smooth UI, and a feature that most unipods lack... char!
I dont use the headphones that come with it instead I use Bose Triport headphones.
the controls are on the side instead of on the front , which i like , because that 's where my thumb is when i hold the thing !
my advice to mp3 buyers : consider how much storage space you will need , then try and listen before you buy -- mp3 players can only fully evaluated by holding and listening to them .
Its also smaller, and gets more looks.
Utility Its got a huge list of features including an FM Recorder a Calender and contacts list.
The player intelligently pre-buffers the next song.
The interface has a sassier flair and the blue-lit trimming is an added bonus.
one minor complaint :
Everything that I have listed above, the Zen has, and more.
overall , a very disappointing product .
i also had it happen when recording a jazz set where there were a number of outtakes of the same song without numbering them separately .
Some other companies require you to send your player back and then charge you an additional $130 to replace their batteries.
that said , they are pretty sturdy machines and i would n't let this dissuade you from getting an mp3 with a lot of memory .
 I haven't used it to purchase any files, so I don't know about that.
the zen nx is $ 100 cheaper than the ipod of the same size , so you have to wonder just how much apple 's markup is anyway !
the good news is if you can 't get it to reset / reboot you can still pull the battery and reinstall it .
another plus in my book , no file limits !
Capacity?
2 ) buy a good pair of head-phones unless you already own one .
whe you transfer your songs to the jukebox , it dumps all of them into a single folder , and then sorts them by the id3 tags.
i can 't believe people continue to pay those prices .
repair seems to be an issue ; some say the repair do n't exist
the zen does n't support folders so it is not really a storage device ; even with third party software that " creates " folders , documents and programs can 't be launched from the zen , so it is not a hard disk , it 's a storage device at best .
it could be a little bit bigger , but it 's easy to get used to .
after some consideration i chose the 40gb nomad zen xtra from creative , and i have not been disappointed .
 I go everywhere with it, on campus, in the gym and at work too !
Unfortunately, the touch-pad issues [non-intuitive] and poor instruction guide killed it.
The karma doesn't look as sexy but it's interface is very efficiently designed.
You can then hook up the Zen via USB to any Win2K or later computer and use that partition to store data files.
how does it sound ?
I took my Zen Micro with me over the weekend, and was forced to lug my laptop with me on the trip for one reason: to keep the Zen Micro charged.
the only way to recover is to plug the power cord and go into recovery mode .
look / design :
I then registered with Napster 2 Go and it immediately recognized my player.
The first thing I did was upgrade the firmware to the version required for WMP10, it syncs flawlessly with Media Player and transfers are fast.
 The Sony Walkman and Creative Zen Touch get 30 and 24 hours per charge, respe
I love my dark blue zen micro and would definitely recommend it.
However, as soon as I found out that I could only download songs from iTunes, I immediately decided that was NOT the MP3 player for me.
The base was deeper and the highs were crisper.
cheap construction - they should have made the player out of hard plastic and put some rubber on the corners .
* scroll button more cumbersome than on earlier models .
just too numerous to list: FM radio, which has weak reception, but at least it there, and a microphone, to name just two.
this thing does its job .
it has a hold button to deactivate the buttons to avoid accidents ; however , enough reviewers have complained that the hold button is easily broken and then the device can 't be used .
 I'm writing about the 4G IPOD 20GB model.
one other plus is that napster now supports this device via their software .
i hope my next player doesnt breakdown . .
the in-program id3 tag editing is a strong point , as well .
Ive heard many good reviews of this product and I wonder if maybe I just had bad luck.
again had to remove the battery .
Last, i find the price a bit expensive for a product such as this.
in that model the hard drive just died one morning before my class .
When you don't feel like toting a PDA while out for the day (i.e. cycling, window shopping, etc,)simply download everything thru outlook.
pros :
it 's probably good for the health of your ears , however i consistently play it near the high end of the volume range ( and my hearing is fine ).
the only good thing about this whole process , is that im getting like a 34 dollar amount back , because of the price difference between when i bought it , and now .
it was no problem for me to use their software .
You ask, yup.
 I like the click wheel OK, but actually the one problem I've had with this, my third, iPod is that occassionally the wheel gets "stuck," meaning either it won't respond at all, or it "jumps" down playlists uncontrollably.
mediasource did not recognize my tags !
the only downside i see is that it does n't look like you can manage playlists from the nomad , it has to be done from the computer .
the longest that i have n't charged it was maybe 3 days and that 's turning it off every now and then .
bottom-line :
 BATTERY LIFE: Pretty medicore at 12 hours, the Creative, iAudio, Rio, and iRiver players last longer.
if you want great sound quality , do n't want to spend an arm and a leg per-gigabyte , do n't mind being something of an iconoclast among many ipod users , and are willing to sacrifice a few cubic centimeters of your personal space for a large discount , then i would suggest the zen xtra for you .
I haven't used the Organizer feature (apparantly you can sync with Outlook).
Functionality, menus are easy to navigate... As many have mentioned, the touch pads take some time to get used to, but I've gotten used to it.
  Overall the iPod really is an almost flawless beast. The capacity in the 20 GB is more than I think most people would ever need and, for the price, I highly recommend it.
Unfortunately, Creative offered scant few pages of instruction, which meant that I was on own from the outset.
After narrowing my choices down to the Zen Micro or IPod Mini, I read countless reviews on both for about a week until my eyes practically started bleeding.
  Using the software iTunes is relatively simple, you just plug the USB cable in, wait your machine to detect the iPod and voila, any songs listed in your iTunes library will be transfered on over to the iPod.
I have used similar devices and they are seamless and simple.
The extra Gb is just a bonus.
Ahhh! There is a catch, the manufacturer does not tell you.
Not perfect, but I'm still enamored...	 I've had an iRiver MP3 player for a year or so now, and it's really great for listening to the radio.
simple click buttons , back buttons volume and display are very easy to read , access and use .
even if it has n't expired , creative is likely to claim that the owner caused the damage which in turn voids the warranty .
3 ) with mediasource being so easy , i found no use for the bundled nomad explorer software .
it actually gives the option to clear the previous playlist when i want to play another list .
I've programed WMP to throw a few favorites on there all the time and always put my new music (less than 3 months) on so I can listen to them in the gym.
 This is really the only downside to the iPod - setting it up and downloading music.
If you have a huge CD collection, 5GB can hold only a part of your CD collection.
I use it on an average 5 hours a day I hook it up to my Belkin FM transmitter in the car or to my Logitech 2.
If you are like me who wants move to the next phase of portable audio from conventional portable CD players I hope you find this usefull.
whatever...  on to the negatives:  -touchy about charging... you can damage the battery and seriously decrease it's life if you don't upgrade the firmware OR dont' heed the advice to always plug in the player side of the cord before plugging in the outlet side.
lastly , you cannot manage anything on the ipod itself .
it was easy enough to remove the front plate , and there was only one way the battery could be inserted .
I say get one today!!
my one recommendation to creative is to get some marketing people to work on the names of these things .
some amazon reviewers say it corrrupted their music files ;
having 4000 or so mp3s , i never got more than 500 transfered .
Inferior quality at a higher price (and shoddy reliability) is not quite justified just because they have a better spokesperson.
Let's face it.
i 'll have to see if this becomes a problem down the road .
 I was shopping for a MP3 player recently, and had the opportunity to play with my cousin's 20GB iPod at some length to see how I liked it.
With the iPod, if the battery has reached it's life span (after about a year), and you didn't buy the warranty from the store, you need to buy a NEW player.
well , maybe that particular song was just corrupt , so i tried to upload some of my own , after four attempts , at each one the unit locked up and required a reboot , i managed to upload an album , which albeit was surprisingly fast , however when attempting to create a playlist out of my newly uploaded songs , the nomad again froze up and refused to work .
con :
i am averaging 4.5 mb per song , to give you an idea of how many songs you can get by the amount of memory .
You have to purchase that separately for some outrageous cost.
They've partnered with Napster to give you a! free month of the subscription service (read: all the music you want free for thirty days, when you can cancel with all your music safely hidden away.
is not as intuitive as I would like.
it also lets you remove songs from the play order .
I waited a week to make the Micro worthy of a review.
and since i 'm out here i can 't mail it back under my 90 days and they wo n't help me out cause they say that the conditions here are not covered under the warranty .
there are n't many reviews for the iriver ihp .
  Again, another hassle.
the lcd screen was very large and readable .
the bottom line for me is that i am very happy with this product .
Upon opening the box I was confronted with this small cute little MP3 player.
 Just kidding.
also , i downloaded the latest firmware upgrade and software updates .
the menu allows you to search for files by artist , genre , and album quite easily .
My gatekeeper programs kept fixes away a few times until I got wise to it.
But, all of this means nothing, because of the serious, serious, stupid and ridiculously elemenatary design flaw: After 3 months, give or take a few weeks, you won't be able to hear anything.
when you load a disc , you go to an internet cite for the insertion of the names for the cd and the tracks .
eg 60 $ for a plastic box to hold 4 aaa batteries to increase the use time past 6-8 hrs ( reviewers figures )
software :
i like the nomad 's color better , but it 's not terribly flashy .
  It's very fast and easy to create custom playlists for upload.
c ) the scroll bar is a travesty -- enough said
this is great as long as all of your music have id3 tags , and if you 've downloaded your songs off the internet , many probably do n't .
Y!
so now i keep it in my pocket .
the reason it does not get 5 stars
Overall, I've been very impressed with the player.
this is my second creative labs mp3 player , and it is definitely a fine product .
the biggest drawback that people have about the zen xtra is the software .
It was a good player when it worked and I loved the design.
For me, I get through a typical day's listening just fine, and I could probably squeeze out two days, but it really is no big deal to just charge the Micro overnight.
5 . the zen does not have a stop button !
This player is not compatible with Napster To Go.
Sales of Apple's mini-phenomenon currently stand at around 20 million worldwide, and this number is set to triple over the next couple of years.
the scroll wheel is finicky ; it works most of the time but there is a learning curve for pressing it just right ; new users say they have 50 % - 75 % success rate ; some find it so frustrating that they just return the device .
I love how small the thing is, and the blue glow - I've had it for two weeks with no electronic problems at all.
the battery life seems good , takes very lttle time to charge , it uploads mp3s quickly and there is no delay between songs .
oh , and the screen saver feature is pretty sweet ^ _ ^
i would recommend doing the upgrade to be sure you have the best chance at trouble free operation .
Although some came close to perfection, none of them left me completely happy with their performance.
well i decided to get this one .
After installation, which was VERY simple....I downloaded any updated software from the Creative website, before I downloaded any music.
the sound is excellent as one would suspect from a creative product .
i ignored the instruction booklet ( as i do with any product ) and figured out how to organize separate playlists within minutes .
i did not managed to make creative nomad explorer to work .
However, if you are considering purchasing one to use with subscription music services like Napster-to-go, or Yahoo Music Unlimited, there are a few things to keep in mind:  1.
But if you get that "fuzzy legal feeling" from paying for songs, at least buy them from allofmp3.com, there are no restrictions and the songs cost pennies.
3 No Voice Recorder-- this has also become an important and popular feature that the iPod unfortunately doesn't have.
the catch is it 's built like a piece of crap .
The karma also has a very long battery life.
This is my first MP3 player and I am so impressed with what such a small device can do.
what a kick butt Mp3 machine and the freedom to get songs from a reasonable source, instead of paying for them two or three times, then get the Creative Zen IPOD killer, kiss my ass Itunes!
Match them pretty well to boot.
I occassionally flip songs while working out as i accidently hit the pad even lightly (yes i have it in maximum desensitized mode).
i received this as a gift for christmas .
The headphone jack gave out after only a couple weeks of use, and the stock earbuds were replaced same day with some high end sony's I'd been having.
The support has been less than impressive, considering the cost.
so i was all excited about the ipod but then the day before i went to best buy to check out the other mp3 players and i came across this one .
 Has a great helpline.
my office would not let me put the software on to my work computer .
Your choice of ten colors in a beatiful package.
note : this will add about $ 30 to the price to purchase , but worth it
the scroll button is overly sensitive at times ; not sensitive enough at others .
So I took out the battery and put it back in again, only to find that it would not work.
I know this list is horribly unreasonable, which is why it amazes me how many players lack some of these basic features.
unfortunately , after loading 280 + songs , all i get now is " player either not connected or busy . "
it also stores data so i can see myself placing some data files on here .
The first was an ipod 5gb (I could kick myself for not buying it), and the other was a creative 5gb.
You once had a cheap CD player (or walkman) that had the same problem, and you just used miniture screwdrivers to push the left/right prongs out.
6 .
what really made this a mediocre mp3 player for me was the software .
the dial on the original zen was perfect and i wish it was on this model .
extremely convenient .
the description of the warranty is buried on the supplied set up cd .
now my dissapointments .
 Way to go Apple!
the player works well with my sony srs-a 202 powered speakers .
i 've played around with the equalizer settings and am satisfied at the range of choices i have there too .
after i reviewed the manual ( a pdf file included on the cd ) , i felt better because they warned you about the message and said it would n't cause problems and , in fact , it has n't .
It comes with a built-in program simply entitled 'Creative MediaSource Audio Converter'.
First of all, I've never been big on earbuds - they're just not that comfortable.
Track #, name, artist, album and genre is automatically-retrieved via internet-labeled, and properly catergorized into the Zen.
before i get into the cons, i'll make a note about the scrollpad.
the player feels very delicate , as if i 'm holding an actual hard drive .
I haven't seen any problems yet, but if you don't like to tinker a bit, this player can be a little challenging to set up.
No offense to Amazon, but I was able to find one online for just over 200 bucks (I'm sure prices here will continue to sink), and that also seemed quite a good bargain for the amount of storage space.
as mentioned above i broke the player within the 1st 10 days .
first of all the player 's sound quality is superior to the ipod .
If you look on Google or around the web's many search engines, you can find a site that will replace the battery at a cheaper price.
The buttons are located on the sides making it difficult to use.
Even after all the nightmare sound problems, I'd still half-way like this product if it kept it's promise; the ability to store 1500 songs.
If I could, I'd trade-up on my Creative Muvo2 and snag a Zen Micro tomorrow.
 Also, some other MP3 players such as the Nitrus allow you to play WMA (Windows Media Audio) files, whereas the iPod does NOT.
the workaround is to update id3 tags on your files ( through mediasource ) but it can be a hassle if you have many such music files .
connect the player to your computer ( via usb ) , open up mediasource , and you can listen to your stored mp3s as they stream directly from the xtra !
on the subject of headphones , this thing seems like a normal mp3 player when you use the headphones they give you in the box , but invest 30 dollars in a nice pair and the sound quality goes up through the roof !
Only slight negatives I've had so far is that I haven't been able to get it to accept any of my WAV files yet.
my " fast forward " button works , but it takes a little extra pressure on it to make it go .
 Warranty expires only after a year.
songs are recognized automatically by id3 tags , which at first i was against since i had organized my files by folder with a previous player from iriver .
when i turned eax off the static disappeared .
they decide that the owner was responsible for the damage and so even if it is returned within the warranty period , creative will charge you to fix it .
This player is absolutely phenomenal, I haven't had any problems, and if you're worried you will have problems, I suggest buying it at a retail store that has a good return policy but anyways... I find the touch pad very easy to use, and I'm surprised so many people have had problems.
on my relatively new computer ( p4 with windows xp and usb 2.0 ) , the os complained about the installation of the drivers .
I've owned this player for nine months now and it's been on 5 cross country trips, one trans-atlantic honeymoon, and numerous roadtrips.
After consulting with Creative's customer support, they determined that the hard drive was broken and the only recourse was to send it in for repair, which would cost me $40, since it's past the 90 day warranty (pretty short warranty).
The blue backlit LCD looks really neat and is easy to read.
Pros: - Excellent sound, even with the headphones that come out of the box, but it absolutely rocked with my Bose Quietcomfort 2 set.
- the unit itself its well structured , with just the buttons you need and none you do n't .
sound quality on this is amazing , as with all creative products .
even leaving it on the default setting ( without the eax enhancements ) produces crystal clear playback .
My ONLY complaint is that when i first received it, it was a little buggy.
- Radio Quality: weak reception
I'm getting stunningly good resul!
and i read today that you can also have online fill out the id3 , so its not a problem .
i have uploaded about 3,000 songs now with very minimal difficulty . ( it 's fast too ! )
one horrible flaw , or mayybe more than one .
while the ease of use was very impressive , i was put off by the price -- about $ 130 more than what i paid amazon for this player .
This new click wheel iPod allows you to navigate through the menus and song via a touch-wheel for scrolling and click-able buttons for selection.
Well, I got my second player, and right out of the box it wasn't working right and once again, after consulting customer se!
if you have two tracks with exactly the same name on one disk , it will not copy both -- it gives you the option of skipping the second or overwriting the first with the second .
if you want to rename a cd title that you have already transferred , you will become frustrated quite quickly .
the scroll button is sort of annoying to push - a nice button would be nicer but eh , not a big deal .
getting files onto it is quick and painless .
I've had almost no problems with the firmware (ie, lock-ups, shut-downs etc), but I have kept the player up to date.
I definately recommend upgrading the firmware, which is as simple as downloading a program from creatives website and running it with your player plugged in.
12 ) big storage - my entire cd collection in one small device ( 5717 songs , 491 albums and counting ) !
it also costs a lot less than the ipod .
what a junk .
having to copy / delete files would be time-consuming and is rendered a non-issue with 40gb of storage .
It cost less than, in most cases, $190.
if you arent hooked up to cddb to get the album info i guess you have to manually input the stuff , but that little work will save you looking for songs .
 One caveat I have is that I understand the iPod does not save the photos in such a way that the quality of the image is preserved.
I bought my IPOD roughly six months ago, and I've been pretty disappointed so far.
many people recommended the ipod , and i borrowed one from a friend .
i gave the zen 5 stars because it 's excellent for the class that it is in and it 's not really appropriate to rate it based on players in a different class .
On the fly play list creation, address book, removable storage drive capabilities, sound recorder, the list goes on people, this thing is literally so chalked full of goodies, it was like Halloween all over again.
huge storage space , i loaded my entire collection of music , which isnt that much , 400 songs , and still have 26 gb , out of the 28 provided to you .
While I'm not too keen on their customer service (none of the products I have from Creative have given me issues), I can definitely recommend the Zen Micro for the simple fact that it does exactly what it is supposed to do and more...without needing any of the extra hype except word of mouth.
The latest craze for MP3 manufacturers is the 5Gb microdrive, a 25% boost from the 4Gb ones supplied by Hitachi.
summary :
i originally purchase a 30 gb nomad zen xtra as a portable mp3 player .
overall i like it .
  But since a lot of these MP3 players are marketed on aesthetics, do go to your local store or borrow a friend's and see how the product actually feels and works.
buy it.
my only reservations about this product concern the tagging process and the way it interacts with the software .
They have the nerve to charge you $30 for a warrantied iPod.
i 'm considering using mine as a distraction to winter boredom in the paintball fields .
before jumping on the ipod train , take a look at this marvel .
flash card memory vs. hard drive ( i.e. why does a 256 mb player cost $$$...and a 40 gb ( 40,000 mb ) player only cost
( but as any hard drive , all of them freeze at certain points )
i purchased a jukebox , it got fried while being recharged , they asked for $ 20usd just to look at it and said that they would charge me for repaing the damned thing .
players that are currently available, but not the Zen Micro.
Decently Sized Screen-- One of the larger ones on the market at 2"
Both from unspecialist makes, and in Creatives case a company that deals mostly in computer parts, and has not invested the money that Apple has.
Update 8/11/05:  The latest release of the iPOD firmware fixes teh calender sync bug i noted below.
First thing I noticed was that the creative wasn't well made.
You can adjust the time the backlight stays on (or turn it off completely), so it's only a minor issue.
 My only nitpick with this is that it sometimes doesn't work on certain files and presents error messages.
because of the large capacity of the nomad , owners can load hundreds of cds on to it .
the flash card memory is more expensive but is very light and compact .
i 'm really happy with this purchase .
but for now it appears that this player does n't play well with itunes .
(It sure does look nice, though!)  I recommend this to any music lover anywhere: the quality of the audio is excellent, the controls and indicators rapidly become intuitive, and the storage capacity and battery life are huge!
this is my fourth mp3 player ( creative nomad jukebox2 and 3 , rio chie , and this one ) , and my third player from creative .
dislikes
at first i thought it was my headphones but it was not .
f ) it doesnt look pretty -- spending this kind of cash , you want something that has the asthetics bit down , of course
It's not as seamless as if you were to use an iPod, but it only takes a few seconds longer.
For the Zen Creative focused on packaging which looked well thought out, well presented and easy to open and put back together.
 The interface took a little getting used to.
Don't apply the black cushioned protectors.
Please judge any review you read -- in any medium, be it here or newspapers or magazines -- by its own merits. ****  Fred
it would have been better to have some sort of window on teh carrying case , so you could see the display without opening it .
The file ripping/transfering software that comes with the player is easy to use.
I love that it allows you to stop and turn it off in the middle of a song if need be, and when you power it back on it will continue right where you left off!
There are extra features packed inside this unit (some that most will hardly ever use) such as FM radio tuner, voice recorder, calendar, and alarm clock.
If anyone is thinkning of getting an ipod mini, forget it and go with this player.
After using it for a week, I wish I had purchased the Ipod.
the volume range is great , so you can blast it if you want .
i forgot , the case does n't fit .
. iTunes-- this is a love-hate relationship program; usually people with Mac like this program than people with a PC, but depending on your computer expertise, this could be a difficult program to use, and it is required for an iPod.
if you buy a creative mp3 player , be sure to get the optional extended warranty .
it took me about 5 minutes before i had mastered the controls .
not good if you 're taking this traveling .
Record memos using the built in microphone.
Perhaps over time I will fill it up, but with almost 250 songs on my iPod now and less than 1GB used, I have a long way to go.
also , i can 't understand why the software does not ignore " the " when it lists the cds in alphabetical order .
to summarize , i am using the creative zen as a mobile device ;
 However, the battery life isn't as good as I would like.
you should consider this when deciding what bit rate you want to use and how much you want to put on the player .
64 kbps is a terrible price to pay.
3 ) the nomad explorer ( winxp style interface ) works well to transfer files back and forth to use the nomad as an external although the tech support web-site states that the primary intended purpose of the player is as a player .
the screen 's large and easily read .
1 ) great sound ( > 98db signal-to-noise ratio beats ipod 's " unspecified " ratio ) and good power output allow the zen xtra to drive large head-phones as well as external speakers .
For the price I think this is a remarkably fun MP3 player.
Now I have to wait another few days for them to get back to me again, probably with more worthless suggestions?
now honestly , i love this player , but with all seriousness , i would not recommend it to other people , because of the breakdown flaw. and i honestly would not recomment the people of the ipod , that crap sucks big donkey ..... never mind .
A distinct IPod relation is evident with white colored cables, power plug and the very nice Zen case with a white rubber inside covering.
i looked up the ipod , the dell jukebox , and the samsung napster player .
Of course, some were better than others, and I probably could have gotten a better sound card from another company at some point.
The player looks SO much better when you're actually holding it.
Two days after writing this review below, I want to remove another two stars.
overall it is a great unit & hopefully creative labs or some other vendor will soon come out with some accessories for it .
The extra spare battery is just a neat bonus.
8 ) creative mediasource , although not as sleek looking as windows mediaplayer , is effective in organizing your collection and is linked to a good cddb service ( gracenotes ).
iPod is brilliant, but service was awful
By far the best MP3 player I've ever used
 Let me say first, that I have always been a hater of all things Apple.
I've been looking for a portable MP3 player for awhile now.
all-in-all, its good enough for its price as long as it doesnt break again due to normal use.
  Think about that if you are worried about battery life.
reviews for sound quality are generally ( but not universally ) positive .
Subscription files need to buffer when you first hit "play," so there's a 4-7 second delay before the first song starts.
usb 2.0 transfer is insanely fast .
 Very sturdy and strong.
Apple is Apple.
the included earbuds were uncomfortable .
Smaller size, 1 gb of more space, radio, voice recording, removable battery, cooler look, all in one.
just as well and would be less confusing for new owners, but i guess they wanted to rival the iPod's search wheel.
notmad has other features too , but this is not an advertisement so please see the company 's web site for more information ...
- The outlook synch only works for non recurring appointments, which personally is very annoying to me but probably wont be to most people. -
i love this player and would probably go with creative labs again .
Not everything in this world is 1!
the software , mediasource , cannot work on my pc . ( laptop , intel p4-2.0 , xp os ) .
like it 's predecessor , the quickly revised nx , this player boasts a decent size and weight , a relatively-intuitive navigational system that categorizes based on id3 tags , and excellent sound ( widely known to be better than ipod - not surprising considering the number of years creative has been in the audio peripheral business ) .
-- > too difficult to change genre / album / track information for large number of tracks .
  Of course, once the songs are converted, you don't have to worry with them again.
because the "engineers" at Creative screwed up the design of the headphone jack.
most people probably wanted the ipod before realizing that a vast array of full-featured viable alternatives exist .
reading the reviews , it looks as though people really love this device for a month or two and then come to hate it .
cons :
i did buy the notmad software a week ago and found that a vast improvement .
I bought my Zen Micro three months ago mainly because I preferred the size and style to the iPod mini.
IRiver has a better FM receiver built in, but the drawback to IRiver products is they are flimsy and poorly constructed.
Creative has not lounched any silicon cover for the player like ipod's (I think belkin makes it for ipod).
the unit works great with my cassette adapter for my car & is also easily worked without taking your eyes off the road !
Long live Apple, long live Macs, and long live the Ipod!
however , the creative software is not real intuitive .
The menu is easy to use and understand.
i got weird messages about it not being ok 'd by microsoft ( or something like that ) , then i thought it failed to load , then it loaded .
the software was great , as long as you have an adminstrative user account ( windows xp ) .
in other words , to locate a track using the software on the computer and add it to a playlist , you must know the name of the cd it appears on and then find the track by locating the location of the unlisted cd by looking for tracks that appear on it .
 What was the biggest must-have item of 2004?
Power for the tech-savvy, ease of use for the less fortunate.
2 ) scroll button / switch
The plus was the storage size but I didn't like hearing the hard drive spin.
they sell an adapter unit to use with your car 's cassette deck .
  It all sounds great too.
 The design, as mentioned above, is sleek, cool and trendy (and I think trendy = good, but it's always hard to tell these days).
It's easy to find songs, organize songs, and also carry some essentials and diversions.
Use Windows Media Player 10 to do your transferring.
do n't buy this player .
User Interface: The software is simple and straight forward.
It's shorter, sleeker, more compact and fits comfortably in my small hand than the iPod...My Nokia cell phone towers over this bad boy!
my 2.6 mhz pentium 4 with usb 2.0 was able to perform the task pretty quickly ( i would estimate ~ 5 - 8 minutes per cd ).
Mine came with a wall adapter, but it charges when plugged into the computer anyways.
stayed up all night trying to figure out that thing .
Yeah, pretty weak.
once i got home with it i had to first install creative mediasource and figure out how it transferred files to the player .
if you hold down the scroll wheel too long ( which is common if you have a lot of songs to sort through ) , it will get " stuck " rapidly going through the songs and wo n't stop until several seconds after you let your finger off of it .
overall , a good buy for the price .
    If you can get past this little flaw, give the ipod 5 stars, because everything else about it is pretty much perfect.
the mini ipod 's look the best to me -- but with only 4gb there 's no way i would ever buy any mp3 player with a measly 4gb of storage .
after much frustration ( above ) i found the notmad explorer ; cute product name for software that resolves virtually all of the creative mediasource file transfer & organization problems .
The features this thing has are !
there is probably an easier way to do this , i just have n't found it yet .
redchair software makes nice software that allows you to do everything you would want to and more !
usually around the time the 90 day warranty expires .
both creative and third-party powered speakers work great , as do third-party wireless transmitters .
if you have always on internet or are logged into the internet you can use the feature that will download the album & song id information ( this is a free service ) with the click of a button .
 The first time I took it in the car, and was able to chose from hundreds of CD titles, thousands of songs, to have all of that at my fingertips was a great experience.
At an average of 14 cuts per CD, that's over 350 CD's.
solution ?
he Pencil?
now i have to return it and rip all my music again .
so , i 've had it for a month , and the headphone jack went out .
the files are there , but i could not access the player without removing the battery , waiting a short period and re-inserting the battery .
they player 's interface itself is also very easy to use .
the rio karma feedback suffers from sensitivity in the hard disk .
if i have to get into making playlists to avoid rear-end collisions , i 'll just buy a regular portable cd/mp3 player and burn myself collections of about 120 tracks per disk .
the sound is quite good, in terms of volume.
buyers BEWARE!
The earbud headphones are really nice.
11 ) minimal pause between songs - less than that on other devices - good achievement for a hard-drive based player
is eax faulty ?
no comments on reliability , warranty , repairs , accessories .
1. creative mediasource software is ok to rip , catalog & burn music if you are starting from scratch ; but i used musicmatch to rip my cds before i bought the zen ( 278 cds ; 3,400 tracks ; 12.5 gb of music all ripped at 128bps ) and guess what ?
This time I'm going to get something a little more reliable - an iPod mini.
when i first had it i kept finding myself having to look at the nomad to figure out where the skip button was .
the software comes with plenty of defaults genres .
The Micro has an impressive array of very nice features and a well designed user interface.
5.
which means that in trying to save a few hundred dollars , i 'll end up spending more than twice that .
 Unless you have an enormous music/audio book library, the 20 GB model should have more than adequate storage capacity, with a stated ability to hold 5000 songs.
I've never owned an Ipod, so this won't be a which one is better review.
i want to have instant access to the volume , not have to hold down a button and have to wait a half second for the player to register it .
 I actually had to contact Apple's Vice-president, in order to get the situation resolved.
it would either not play the song at all , or skip wildly , no matter that the unit was resting on my desk .
so yes , as with all software bundled with creative products , it was useless and ugly .
Upon logging in I received a notification that my player works with Napster but not Napster To Go.
had i not been in such a hurry to load cds , i would have spotted them sooner .
i 'm convinced by my own experience and that of many other people who have posted here who have had the same experience that the product is defectively designed , and will not hold up to normal use .
1.
you can manage your profile , change the contrast of backlight , make different type of display , either list or tabbed .
The songs recorded with FM are as good as the original signal.
it is an extremely cool gizmo .
you of course have some good customization options with the unit as well ( sound presets , navigating options , playlists , etc ) .
that 's my only real complaint about the nomad zen xtra , though .
Who knows -- you may avoid a migraine altogether.
i called creative and they said to send it in and they would decide if it in warranty .
i was limited to 999 files in a playlist with archos ' os , now i can have as many as i want .
you even can not navigate by genre / artist / album since under genre you get just all tracks in that genre , no other division .
You can fill it up with anything you like out of there 1 Million song library.
software :
I have had the ipod mini and it performs on the level with my sound card but the micro beats it outright.
The FM tuner is just a little spare icing on the cake.
Tall order, eh?
10 .
  I have almost dropped the ipod several times, just because it is so smooth.
and most stores will not take back a product 90 days after purchase .
my music demands are pretty intense and this handles those demands without problems .
resources : http://www.nomadworld.com, http://www.nomadness.net
sure enough there is no such ability .
cons :
The controls and the menus are clearly displayed and easily fathomed
4.
 The sound quality is excellent, accessing the music is easy, and the controls are generally well thought out.
I love it.
The more I use it and figure out how to do things, the more I like it.
Also, the battery's AREN'T USER REPLACEABLE.
buyer beware ! sort your songs and adjust the titles accordingly ( maybe this applies to other players too , and not just the nomad , i do n't know ) .
 This review will contain some comparisons to other MP3 players (mainly the Rio Nitrus) for interested consumers.
granted this is cheaper than an ipod .
after os froze twice on me in the subway i returned the jukebox .
meaning i do n't have to manually clear the list , and then load the new list .
the pc-side software can be goofy and takes a little getting used to but it 's not as bad as some reviewers have indicated .
Transferring files couldn't be easier thanks to the included software bundle.
( i would have appreciated having a firewire plug , however )
it was always after it finished a process or something , so it did n't cause any file errors .
the software , which comes with player is not good at all .
I have two spare batteries (brought on ebay for 28 bucks each).
   Backing up your iTunes library takes a short amount of time.
thats it .
pros :
 Apple is already being outpaced by Creative Labs and Sony on the battery front, and just about any non-Apple player allows you more compatibility with download services than Apple's iTunes-only program.
i find all of the controls well-placed and not flimsy in the least .
the screen is very easy to read and the blue light is bright enough to read at night , but dim enough so it does n't blind you when you stare too long .
the reason for this the ipod has " a better user interface " .
this did n't bother me too much because it 's still a decent size .
Decent Battery-- On the average size, but the 40GB comes with a dock.
my choices at that moment were to manually re-tag my music or re-rip using mediasource .
I just want MUSIC to eminate from it when I want, how I want.
the headphone jack failure seems to occur just about when the warrranty period is to expire .
so all you do is stick a pin or something small in the reset button & you 're golden .
none of these features are available because of the ipod 's 1-way transfers - you cannot make changes on the ipod that are premanent .
It holds a ton of songs and looks cool in the palm of your hand.
for an early christmas gift , i got a zen xtra 40 gb player .
 The song quality of the iPod is excellent, and the included ear buds are actually more than satisfactory, for most users.
The machine itself seems fine, but the software that came with it is AWFUL.
In minutes I was easily navigating through the menus.
i 've had it for about 2 weeks and it 's the best player i 've seen , and used , ever .
now as others said , so far this player is an awesome player , there are flaws .
this explains why you see what appears to be such weird pricing on mp3 players .
people also have complained about the case not having a window , but that 's not really a big deal to me either -- the case is sturdy and offers very good protection .
while , there are flaws with the machine , the xtra gets five stars because of its affordability .
if creative offered a 12-month warranty on their mp3 players , i 'd be covered .
Still not so sure about this one...
It's cute as anything and the glowing blue LED looks super cool around the edges.
well thats about it , and as people said in earlier previews that the headfone jack gets messed up , stil havent happened to me , and i hope it doesnt .
It has a cardboard slip cover with a nice layered box casing inside.
The removable disk isn't really explained in the product literature but basically it allows you to partition a portion of the drive for data.
this would have been much easier .
  This is a hassle, of course, but I'm not sure if the problems are to blame on poor construction, cold weather, or misuse by yours truly.
  As far as an actual player is concerned, the iPod is next to none.
I bought this two months ago at a local retailer, after spending considerable time reading reviews here of this and other 5GB players.
Zen micro does.
my gut tells me the nomad will in the long run be , at best , a 40gb portable hard drive , albeit one on which i can 't create folders , or , at worst , a very expensive lesson in companies never to buy products from again ( i have their audigy sound card and find it in many ways equally frustrating ) .
creative zen feedback suffers from construction quality , poor product support , difficulty of using the scroll wheel and reasonably consistent feedback about problems with the headphone jack .
The biggest red flag for me was the fact that although my cousin's player was relatively new, it was riddled with scratches.
It's smaller, in most cases than the palm of your hand, and is ergonomically curved.
all of the zens use a standard notebook drive .
red chair 's notmad explorer is great & recommended by about every reviewer to repleace the creative jukebox software .
There were two downloads I had to complete.
this gap allowed the front panel to fly off after barely being touched .
anyway , this player is a great deal and i really love it .
even if there happened to be identical track titles on the same disc , you could still edit the file name manually and get them both onto the player .
Good, But Not For Everyone
while the ipod 's form factor is much nicer , here 's where the zen is better .
anyway , on with the review .
1.
For a sleeker, smaller and more "average" MP3 player the Nitrus is great but the iPod blows it out of the water - the interface is great and the design is wonderful.
like many reviewers , i really wanted to like this product .
This 20 gigabyte iPod by Apple Computer allows you to put up to 5000 songs onto it, in a choice of digital formats.  MP3, AAC, etc.
wish it included somebody to re-rip all the songs .
you can also delete songs from the player itself , and create playlists - on the fly - on your player .
there are a couple things i didnt like though but nothing serious : a little larger than other mp3s but still light , the software takes some time to get used to ( maybe 10-15 mins ) , and this thing would definitely be destroyed with one fall .
the only thing i would complain about the zen xtra is that the controls are n't as easy as the ipod 's , or as " sexy " looking .
My PC is running Windows 98 though....maybe having old outdated things is a good thing for once!
_  About the hype:  I must applaud Creative for their restraint.
the nomad explorer provide most of the functionality offered by 3rd party programs like notmad .
I really like both of them and as with any other popular products, they both have their share of negative reviews warning of their shortcomings.
it seems that depending on the system the software might not work or might work , because it works on all the other computers i have .
the front cover ( which you remove to take out the battery ) feels flimsy but when snapped on , the device still feels pretty solid .
the pros and cons of it :
i have no problem using the player itself and i feel it is a very good player .
do n't be pulled in by the great price -- you get what you pay for , and there 's a reason this model is so cheap .
the scroll wheel is better than the ipod 's as well , in that you do n't risk giving yourself a cramp running your thumb around in circles endlessly - just a small nudge of the finger and you 're there .
also bought a soundblaster card that they sold for the mac .
But, they rushed it to market, so you, general public, get to roll the dice.
The included earphones are pretty good - my advice?
i have n't checked the resilience of my xtra yet , and do n't plan to .
i chose to keep the ipod and am very happy with the purchase .
it only comes in 20gb ; enough for most people , not for those with large collections ripped at high sampling rates .
be forewarned .
 Now if you do decide to take the iPod on the road, my suggestion is to forego any purchasing of the FM Transmitter devices, unless you live out in the middle of Mississipi because frankly, you'll need a next-clear FM channel on your radio to get any sembelance of a clear signal.
there have been other occurrences of locking , but i will not bore you with the details .
unlike my 3 other mp3 players , this thing will only work properly if you have id3 tags on all of your tracks .
Thankfully, Creative has come through with a product that puts the Ipod back in its place.
m.
As far as user interface is concerned, the best and easiest to use seems to be the one that comes with the player, 'Creative MediaSource Organizer'.
first , the battery is replacable by the user , because creative intended it to be - unlike apple with the ipod .
Whichever it may be, I'm happy I've made this purchase.
Maybe in their 5th generation they'll add features to the iPod. But for now, pleases don't buy this, and buy a Creative Zen or the iRiver H10-20GB instead.
  What's great about this is that it's a game based on YOUR music.
creative are * the * sound people for computers , i can 't understand why eax would introduce static .
the software is quick & easy to use & i found the entire process very easily mastered .
And t!
 Also, not liking the gel case.
So far I have no complaints with this player.
I managed to fit about 700 tracks on the player, but many of those are 6-15 minute long classical tracks.
the battery lasts very long when playing music , but writing files to the player drains the battery fast , so you need to have it plugged into an outlet when sending files .
Within one month, my player completely died.
and have you seen the price of the ipod extras that you need .
 However, having said that, this could just be because I haven't really had enough time to experience it in its entirety.
if you have any doubts about this player , well do n't .
Do your research before you buy it, and especially talk to other owners.
the casing scratches a little easy , but the glove cases work great to protect against this .
i would recogmend this player to anyone i know , and you will not be dissapointed .
 This one has a color display, which I like a lot, being very visual.
at 8 ounces it is pretty light but not as light as the ipod .
To minimize any frustration (and the odds that you may return a usable unit), keep the following in mind:  1. While your unit is!
a somewhat more troublesome problem is that the internet site will sometimes give different discs of the same set slightly different names .
The player has great potential (ur experiance may differ based on your headphones).
i have not yet tried the cd-ripping program .
 The problem with this is that a) it takes a LOT of time if you have many files and b) audio quality is somewhat lost (if you're an audiophile, this will bother you - frankly, I can't tell the difference).
Also, I am quite partial to the Creative MediaSource Organizer and Player software, which I had with Audigy ZS sound card originally; it is definitely an added plus.
The package also comes with a USB cable, an AC adapter, a pair of headphones (they're okay until you get a better pair), a stand, and a microfiber pouch to carry your Zen Touch in.
not a big hassle as many would have you think .
It DESERVES a perfect 5-stars.
i got the 40gb jukebox zen xtra for christmas .
I don't want to keep testing my luck.
Finally, someone has figured out that building some smarts into the player will help it compete with iPods.
5 ) the cheap , user-replaceable battery ( $ 50 from creative ) is a great advantage over the ipod 's battery which costs $ 100 to replace .
i will never go back to my archos again ! !
So yeah, you can have the best of both worlds.
there is no way the battery supplied lasts 14 hours !
my favorite is to play " any track " - am rediscovering my music !
now i dont have to lug around 80 cds if i dont know what i 'm going to want to listen to biking home .
well that was not a simple task .
When I finally got it, I was amazed by how asthetically pleasing everything was, including the packaging.
 Then I had the second one in my boyfriend's car, and his car got jacked.
If I was pressed to find a negative aspect of the Zen Micro I would probably have to mention weak FM reception, but the building where I primarily use the Micro seems to have a history of terrible radio reception anyway, so you can take that for what it's worth.
if not amazed, I won't go into the kind of detail many people have here, but I do want to say a few things about my experience so far (I've had it about two weeks) with the Zen Micro;
* Of Course, if you've BOUGHT tracks from iTunes, this won't work.
the locations of various buttons on one side or the other is somewhat illogical
My hobby is home audio and home theater.
i purchased a jukebox 3 from creative almost a year ago .
Also, a word of warning, hide the White Earbud headphones, because they are the most noticable earphones ever and your precious I-Pod could be stolen from you if you don't take steps to hide it from view of other people.
  It charges quickly and holds a charge for a very long time.
I'm addicted to music.
the included eax support is useful at times , especially when you listen to a variety of genres , as it will adjust the equalizer for you which can be a big hassle .
The Carbon is nice but offers no improvement to the near-perfect iPod experience.
after they have been loaded into the Zen which is something I've had to do many times already.
charged my battery .
  Why?
 They fix the problem and help you with whatever your I-Pod needs Comes with two USB ports and a charger.
Holy cow! It really does scratch easily!
ORIGINAL REVIEW December 2004 I'm sorry to read about other people having problems with their Zen Micro, but mine has worked great!
The battery life doesn't appear to be any!
you should update the firmware before upgrading the drivers if you decide you need the newer drivers for the pc.
no way , now i have an ipod and i 'm a very happy man .
i should point out that the new rio karma is now down to about $ 280 and is reviewed readily as being as good as ( and better in some areas ) the ipod .
es, the interface took a little getting used to, but once I did, it's almost second nature now.
Apple stil does it better but needs to come out with a 5 gig mini.
anyway , im gon na go find dennis now , have a nice day ! ! !
There's even an equalizer (under "settings") that allows you to adjust the sound for acoustic, bass booster, bass reducer, classical, dance, "deep", and electronic.
i was going to get a 10gb ipod , but after looking at the 10 day warranty for ipod and www.ipodsdirtysecret.com ( battery lasts 18 months ;
 I disagree.
unfortunatly it was dropped and damaged a year after i bought it .
you will have a very expensive paperweight .
the panel seems like it will come off very easily as other people have said .
I bought my Zen Micro last december as a christmas gift to myself, save for a few software issues, I couldn't be happier with my purhcase.
for the price and features it is really good .
if you are buying a zen xtra check whether the battery recharges via usb ; it does not on the zen nx .
im taking mine back tomorrow morning , and getting a nice shiny new ipod instead .
the other controls are all very easy to use .
I primarily got the Zen to use for band practice, so I use the removable disk to store lyrics and sheet music.
the high resolution screen is easy to read and has a backlight .
The subscription files are still a little slower to transfer, but it's only by about 10% or so.
  It's the biggest pain in the rear end of all the cons, without a doubt.
I've tried different headphones, upgrading firmware, using different files and nothing helps.
was i just unlucky at that moment ?
dont let the bad reviews of the software change your mind .
Are you feeling lucky today?
the device is larger than an ipod of similar capacity .
5 ) handle the player with care - it is not meant to be dropped .
Feature for feature, I find it a very sweet little player; equipped with a higher end headphone system, between this and th larger Zen Ihardly use my home stereo system anymore.
i have a large collection of cds and have loaded over 100 of them so far .
i love this player .
Looks and shape: I have a black one and the first time I charged it and switched it on jeez the blue light looked so cool.
Some features that the 'Zen Micro' has that sold me on my purchase include: a 5G hard drive...actually an SD flash card drive...very large and much more than actually needed, the ability to sync with Microsoft Outlook's calendar, the long battery life of about 10 to 12 hours (I can change the battery myself for about $40 to buy vs.
Better for the Zen Micro is Outlook compatibility.
It gives you the most bang for your buck, period.
however , i do n't like to carry it on my belt because the clip is n't secure and the case can slip off .
I have my reasons.
if you have the money and need 40 gb , this is the player for you .
I had a Casio unit, which had given great service, and would have been happy to get another one, but was tempted by the iPod's sleek design, storage capacity, connection options- - firewire and USB, and its integration with iTunes.
So far it has worked out great	 I
before asking for the zen xtra specifically for christmas i researched many different mp3 players but finally decided on this one , and now that i have it i could n't be happier and i 'm convinced it 's the best one out there .
Also, the earbuds that came with it sound great but are uncomfortable (although my wife didn't have a problem), so I bought a pair of over-the-ear headphones.
I'm going to try to get a refund but considering all the hoops I jumped through (emails, downloads, reboots, a purge and another download, plus reading through the help menu) a refund should be twice as frustrating.
ipod users have to send theirs back and pay $ 100 for a replacement .
As a student, I spend a significant amount of time on my laptop and am used to scrolling up and down on the touchpad, which made the Creative Zen Touch a more attractive product for me.
 As for iTunes, I don't find it to be as good as the Windows Media Player as a computer mp3 player, but it is good enough.
i have n't had time to really push this player to the limit , but audio aspects on the nomad are satisfactory , as should be expected from creative labs .
i do n't always care for gracenotes ' genre listings but it allows easy editing of id3 tags .
3 ) it does not work automatically like a hard drive when you connect it to your computer , like some players
  It seems to deteriorate every time I use it.
I thought the FM radio would not see much use with so many tracks avaiable to me, but its great for tuning in to TV programs at the gym while on the treadmill, concerts and programs being simulcast, NPR, and on and on.
It takes seconds to work the menus and go from song to song.
the player has its minor glitches like for example when i turn it on , 60 percent of the time , it sais , shutting down , which means i have to turn off , and turn it on again , which is not to my likings .
The belt clip however is not very useful if you move around a lot.
i did n't use it long enough to know , but clearly you need to use it with caution .
Its ability to record radio is useful as well, but would have been moreso if it could be preset.
 I look at iPod owners today and quietly feel sorry for them. :) They just didn't know about the ARCHOS gmini400.
  Comments: Overall this is still a great value, but is kind of overrated in the sense that there are beater deals on the market.
Bottom line: If you value excellent sound quality and the ability to use music subscription services, and are willing to deal with the possibility (not the certainty) of setup gremlins, by all means get the Zen Micro.
bottom line ... great product , unbeatable price .
I can't comment on the bundled software as I haven't even looked at it.
What impressed me most was the sound.
I first signed up for Napster on line.
i am annoyed that the player 's not automatically recognized as a hard drive .
personally , i do n't understand all the complaints about the interface .. .
The greatest thing about the software (in my humble) is that it reads your CD info.
The bass treble the sound detail is awsome.
this was not a problem for me as most of my collection was ripped from my own cds and i updated the id3 tags on my downloaded music .
So reliability is the winner here for the iPod.
all other buttons are pretty sensitive to touch and work well .
creative provided e-mail support ;
i shopped around for a month looking for a good mp3 player , and all i heard was how good the i-pod was .
i refused to go for an ipod , i am not going to spend all that money just for the apple name and because it is " trendy " to have that player .
good thing i got a replacement plan .
(linux geeks -> avoid the 2.x series that is aimed at windows media play!
Because Steve Jobs is a twisted individual and he made sure that he ruined this device by giving it an UNREPLACABLE 18 MONTH BATTERY.
i am quite happy having over 10 gigs of music stored on this baby as well as a few gigs of media files in the data folder .
it still fits in the palm of your hand , and it 's not heavy .
It's still an absolutely unbeatable value for the amazing technology you're getting, so don't let a few petty cons dissaude you from owning THE coolest thing on the planet right now for any music lover.
So, I downloaded another program (Switch freeware) and manually changed the WMA files to MP3, then downloaded them to the iPod.
It's an admitted design flaw that the people at Creative have acknowledged (google it).
However, I do know about a dozen people with well over 4000 MP3s each.
However I looked up some consumer reviews online only to find out it had the shortest warranty of any MP3 player on the market, and was notorious for having poor customer service and completely breaking after 90 days (when the warranty expires, surprise, surprise).
assuming you have filled in all the id3 tags on your mp3s , you will not have any problem finding them on your zen xtra .
 This unit comes with the USB/firewire cable as a standard item now.
my goal of using it as a music player * and * data storage device has not been met ; do n't make the same mistake .
i gave it only 3 stars due to the fact that the 1st one broke when i dropped it from a fairly short distance ( less than 2 ft ) .
Sound quality? Phenomenal.
( 1 gb = 1,000 mb )
the included leather pouch is a big plus : it actually protects the unit well , something a lot of ' carrying cases ' fail to do with other audio devices .
By far this seems to be the best value out there for the money; if you are undecided, the Creative Zen Micro seems to be the best choice.
If you're an audiophile, you already know that mp3 players are far from impressive.
This is what I do:  I copy all the music I want to import to the Zen Micro into an iTunes play list.
 You will find a small folder/envelope on top along with the player.
The only reason for not giving it 5 stars: the claimed battery life of 12 hours is very optimistic - possible maybe if you really sit down and listen continuously for 12 hours without ever touching the player, but in real life I can probably get 6-8 hours at most.
i bought myself an rca mp3-cd player , and i 'm happy with that until a cheap , worthwhile mp3 player coomes out .
also , the sound is wonderful ... my only gripe were those aweful earphones that this came with .
I do give create to Creative for their attractive design.
often i fill i need to have better organization for the library and there is not enought of variables .
the nomad can hold any type of file , not just mp3 , so you can use it as a portable hard disk .
i bought the zen xtra 30g as a gift .
 You can't change the battery, so I don't know what I'm going to do in a year or so.
* does not provide enough volume when connected to larger headphones , or external receivers ( car radio ).
The earbuds, on the other hand, are decent in sound, but lacking in bass.
in my case , the bill was $ 81 , about a third of what i paid for it .
Creating and modifying playlists is easy and clean.
+ i had no problem using musicmatch software already on my computer to load songs and albums onto this unit
 I still give the iPod five stars, though, as it could have been something I did incorrectly during the install (though I did follow the onscreen prompts) so I'll give Apple the benefit of the doubt.
if i wasnt a runner i would take a bullet in the foot for my nomad jukebox .
They have a good concept here, and I normally expect a lot better quality from Creative, so maybe they will do better with the next gen version, but for now I say buyer beware.
the instructions that come with it do n't explain how to make things simple .
basically u can see that i have given the player 3 stars , instead of 1 .
it took maybe 15 minutes to transfer 1000 songs .
Why get locked in to crappy Itunes weather you want to or not?
i 'm very pleased with my zx so here 's a quick review .
however , it does n't register instantly as a hard drive like other players .
This is the mp3 player with everything I need.  As long as it lasts me a good three years, I'm satisfied.
It is unlikely that you will EVER get the best products just by sticking with one company.
Right now, the Creative software transfers subscription music files very slowly.
the visceral teases include the case , the sound quality , and the capacity .
Going further up-market and using super hi-rez audiophile headphones is probably overkill; they will only serve to cast MP3 limitations into sharper relief, and honey, you can't hear what ain't there.
  This may be the player for you, but it's not leaps and bounds ahead of any other player, and others are ahead of it in certain areas, so practice some caution when you buy.
It's easy to use, and makes transfering your CD collection to the player a cinch.
My first instinct was to go with an iPod.
Further, the tech specs suggest that it has better audio quality than the Ipod.
The sonic detail at the highest compression rate(64 kbps WMA) is crazy.
	 If, like me you simply want an iPod to play your mp3's, buy this one.
This is really stupid to me. 18 months for a battery isn't good, actually, it's medicore.
it may have taken several years to fill this up .
transferred the zens new software onto it in about 10 seconds .
for ipod you have to buy a cable and it is n't compatible with all windows pcs.
Spare batteries incase  you need some extra hours without charging.
this is rarely a problem with any kind of popular music , but can be troublesome with classical music where tracks are identified by tempi .
For looks, well iPod is head and shoulders better, both the iRiver and Creative Zen look positively ugly when next to a gleaming iPod.
the music plays awesome , never skips , even if u run for a bit , so you can listen to music without interruption .
if it were not for that i would have given it 4 .
you can 't simply open up a folder from the player and play all the songs in it .
the screen is large and bright and has all the info i need where i need it .
The Earbuds are great headphones as good as my AGK Studio 240, well not as good but darn close.
  If Apple makes no attempt to at least create an equivalent type of service, they are failing to compete with the market.
the software and design are geared towards enhancing the music experience .
just get some new headphones and your set .
all reviews i 've seen seem to indicate that the creative mp3 jukeboxes have the best sound quality of these 2nd generation jukeboxed ( ipod , archos , dell , samsung ) .
after installing it and trying to make it working for 30 minutes i went and bought notmad .
 However, the Creative and iRiver players are (Rio's isn't), and they only cost around $30 to replace, while iPod charges shipping and technical support.
hard drives ( this is what most ipods have - and just about all mp3 players over 3-5 gb of memory ) .
Who wants to go through the hassles of loading software onto a "foreign" computer just to move over some simple (*.txt) files?
Or simply rate its performance in relation to other products?
  A lot of people go for the iPod because of its reputation, but if you honestly shop around and check out the reviews on Cnet and things like that, you can find a better 20GB HD MP3 player.
Because it is a hard drive, it has moving parts unlike other MP3 players, perhaps making it more prone to catastrophic damage.
 All in all, the good far outweighs the bad.
Good sound-- Plays very nicely, even though the stock headphones are kind of weak Durable-- not the most durable because its mostly plastic, but very compact and sturdy
Reliability & Build  I dropped the player once from about 4 ft, and it fell hard, but kept on playing.
still , apple continues to squeeze dollars from consumers by not designing the battery to be replaceable .
I believe them.
now i can transport files to friends house with ease .
Havent read the manual till now (remember I am good time computer user).
the price / performance looked just right .
- Not compatible with Audible.com books.
not only is it more affordable , but its a better player for windows , which is what i have .
the nomad is not ugly , it is not that big , it comfortably fits in my pocket , or heavy , and the controls are not hard to get used to .
 I actually hooked up the iPod to my receivers AUX port with a Pbus connector and a Y-splitter cable, it wasn't too hard to do and now, I can listen to all my music in my car without ever having to lug around CDs again.
if you are ok paying $ x00 for something that can be used now , but is likely to both get better and cost less in the future then try to determine which device is the lesser of evils for you .
jack that Creative has acknowledge.
the sound quality with jazz and pop music is equally superior .
you wo n't appreciate the quality this thing has to offer unless you are using a good set of cans.
My friend has an ipod, and although the sound quality probably won't meet most audiophile standards, the product itself is better than anything creative has made.
one word of caution with regards to using the nomad with itunes .
these models now ship with creative 's mediasource program , which allows you to highlight the files on your computer that you want to add to your zen xtra , click a button , and transfer it straight to your player .
first , the sound quality is okay , but ( as at least one other reviewer has mentioned ) the eax can cause audio interference after about 30 minutes .
well , anyway i could go on and on on why this player did n't meet my expectations .. .
playlists can be made on the fly , without aid of a computer , and you can use play modes like shuffle and repeat for your ' now playing ' selections or playlists .
These are limited to the voice recorder, address book, and such.
the screen may be a little smaller , but it is very readable and does n't come in the overused blue .
2 .
great sound , very long battery life ( i routinely play it for 12 + hours ) , very fast recharges rate , removable battery , storage size , nice screen , firmware updates , and great price .
it overrides songs so you have to go in there and put it your own titles especially if you have remixes .
 It is very closed to services and programs outside of Apple's small (though luxiourious, admittedly) island.
needless to say , i would n't recommend anyone purchasing this product .
so easy to set up , had some problems with my archos .
i 've tried the belkin fm transmitter unit with it & it worked well when i set it on top of a portable radio , but was awful trying to use in the car which is somewhat of a disappointment .
i love it ! !
I would go along the lines of any more than 2 thousands songs, get a larger size such as the 40GB, just to be on the safe side.
does n't always register push-button movement .
As for the problem with locking up mentioned in a previous post, it only seems to happen if the USB cable is unplugged while WMP 10 is still running.
here 's something you have to know before you considering about buying this one .
**** I gave up a ton of positive reviews to add this addendum.
Everything shines of quality.
it 's because the 256 player uses flash memory ( smaller / lighter ) and the 30gb uses a hard drive .
yes .
I have had several MP3 players over the past few years, and have to say that this by far is the best that I've owned.
Then what?
 I mean, for music buffs and archivists - use your PC as the archive, not the iPod!
This is a difficult player to review because I would recommend it on a case-by-case basis.
Two: it has a removeable/rechargeable battery, so you don't have to send the thing in when the re!
The touch buttons do take a little getting used to and I don't like how the scroll button is the same button used as an "enter" key, but you get used to it and it isn't a big deal.
the xtra improves upon the zen nx with a larger , now-blue backlit screen , which is infinitely better .
none of these are perfect .
It also has tons more features then previous creative products, and most of them are very useful such as the ability to custimize the main menu to show the stuff you want, not the default items (creativelabs.com for more on that).
 It is sharper on the 'mini' units.
I am one of the many people who (a) are PC Based and (b) can't stand to see the multitudes of people with those funky white headphones that belong to Ipod users.
i 'd like to see how well a small company supports its mp3 player in 2 years when its battery dies as all rechargeable do .
if you are out for an mp3 player with a lot of memory and do not want to spend a ton of money , i think this is a great purchase and strongly recommend it .
given that i already have the zen the only reason i am happy with it is because of the notmad software .
third , creative software allows you to keep two windows open to look at both the content on the player and the computer .
That's a lot of money Apple are making from a very powerful, influential and trendy product.
4 .
I take mine everywhere.
if that one fails too , and i hope if it does , let it happen in the first 90 days , not later , cuz thats the warranty .
had there been strange noises , or obvious defects , i would have accepted a replacement , but this is clearly from a defective and inferior operating system and i for one do not intend on waiting for patches .
my friend has an i-pod for about 2 years and the battery has so so messed up .
Considering the fact that just about any CD you purchase and "rip" to your hard drive will be formatted as a WMA file, iTunes version 4.5 (included with new iPod releases) contains an auto-converter that converts WMA to MP3 for iPod compatability.
I bought this item in part due to the good reviews here on Amazon.
when i turned eax back on the static was also not present .
pros summary :
 As mentioned above, accessing songs is simultaneously easy and fun.
I ended up (surprisingly) getting one for Christmas.
I would say the only thing I need to adjust is the sensitivity of the touch pad.
1 . i do n't need the nomad at the office .
on the positive side , the sound of the player is pretty good , once you have everything configured .
the creative labs zen xtra has all the features the i-pod has and if you get if from amazon your only going to pay $ 300 for this great player .
Loved the service so much I decided to buy an MP3 player and upgrade from the basic Napster to Napster To Go.
all i have to say is that i did freeze on me once , but it has n't done it since .
Sound: This is where I love Zen the most.
it 's a shame , but mine is going back .
 There technical service isn't helpful either; they just read what's on their website and charge you $50 (+ toll fees) to do it.
At this point, the Rio Carbon is 5Gb (along with a host of South Korean manufacturers), and eventually the iPod will get a "free" upgrade to 5Gb as the 4Gb trickle down to nothing.
in two transfer batches ( first was english songs , then foreign languages ) , it did n't come up with any errors ( aside the duplicate name i mentioned ).
When I first saw "music trivia quiz" I thought it was some pre-programmed elitist thing - it's not.
ok so i donno about what other people said , how the player breaks and stuff , and the headfone jack , fortunately that did not happen to me .
And the price?
But since it's so small, it isn't a big deal to bring it with me.
however , the music and data are apparently not separated ; ipod reviewers complain about " white noise " in random feedback mode that comes from appointments / contacts created on the ipod during synchronization .
What I dont like: Nothing much except Headphones, Belt clip design.
Everything else about the ipod is great, the click wheel is very easy to use and so is the software that comes with it.
Click on "Zen Micro Media Explorer" and then click on "Transfer Data Between PC and Device" after that, a File Explorer window opens.
other plusses : changable battery , loads of presets for environments , decent construction , still quite small and light despite being slightly bigger than an ipod .
You may need to briefly disable various spam blockers, cookie swatters, and antivirus programs (I know, I know -- get offline first).
Now, I can back up what little I  keep on my computer quickly and without a fuss.
Space : 5GB =2500 songs.
in fact , each of my creative mp3 players had software problem in the first place .
you will be sorry if you do .
the headphone jack acts as a pseudo line out jack .
rip your tunes at 192kb if you like , alhthough 128kb sounds just dandy , and you 'll get more tunes stored on it .
 Sound quality is more dependant on the quality of the original source and of the unit used to broadcast (headphones, stereo, etc).
reviews of apple 's support are generally poor ; they seem to address issues in warranty , which covers a short time after delivery / pickup of item .
the scroll button seems ok , i have no problems with it .
4 ) no fm or voice recording - these would have been nice extras .
great product with Limited Services
... then this might intrigue you greatly.
While they all seem to have their own positives and negatives, I picked the Zen Micro over the Ipod mini, because I am not an Apple person, never has been - I wanted something that is fully compatible with Windows Media Player.
 Though rated at 12 hrs, I could barely manage 8 and I have two spares as well.
I think I'll stick to CDs.
now , even 1 star seems like i 'm giving creative the benefit of the doubt .
just bought one & i 've enjoyed it to date .
read the instuctions - do not plug the zen into your computer until you have installed all the software onto your computer and rebooted it ! !
-User's guide doesn't cover a lot of important info that is covered on their website.
Speaking of battery, it's removable AND replaceable!
once you hook the thing up to the computer ( via the usb cable ) , the machine instantly recognizes the fact that it 's there & installs the drivers .
it only took me about 10 seconds to transfer a 200mb file .
short warranty ( 3 months , so i got the extended warranty at best buy ) , occasional freeze up ( easily fixed by popping out battery ) , somewhat flimsy navigation wheel .
finding a particular song ( s ) or album on the nomad jukebox is fast and easy .
the karma does have a stop button .
playlists can be generated on the fly ( which is a bit clunky but still a really nice bonus ) or by using the software , and there are a bevy of eq options .
i got this a while ago knowing nothing about it .
transfers are surprisingly quick through usb 2.0 .
i 've had this thing for less than a month , treated it quite well , never dropped it , and the headphone jack is all screwed up .
  In the end, I haven't used it long enough to say that it is worth the extra money.
The touch controls took a little getting used to but now I wouldn't change it for the scroll wheel.
i would have given a 3 to 5 star review in my first few weeks , depending on how mad i felt about the crummy software .
tiny !
it has several play options , one of the best is an option to shuffle , based on all or a certain playlist .
for a price that 's still less than even the lowest level ipod i was able to get this 40gb monster , and the best part is it works as great as it was advertised to and then some .
I tried everything to make it work - followed advice from Microsoft support, uninstalled and reinstalled the whole thing, rebooted every five minutes, ran a virus scan on my computer, checked my drives for errors, everything.
it is slightly larger than an ipod , no doubt about it .
the reviews of this product can be roughly divided into two groups : ( 1 ) those who have had the product for a few weeks and ( 2 ) those have had the product for a few months .
I mainly only get to listen to music in my car, so it's an awesome replacement for a console full of the same ten cd's that have been in there for the last 8 months that i keep forgetting to replace.
carry your entire collection !
SOUND QUALITY: The iPod's sound quality is pretty good.
i was prepared to love it .
 I have several hundred songs from burned albums, at they all worked fine.
So, I was one who was ready to give it 5 stars with no complaints at all.
Don't worry this player rocks.
i 'm starting to listen to cd 's that i have n't listened to in years now that i have them all handy in one place .
The device looks very cool, I think (exactly as the photos promise), it's comfortable and lightweight in my jacket pocket, and the interface and controls are easy enough to navigate after a bit of practice.
The supplied headphones are hands-down better than the mediocre iPod buds.
i would have liked to have given it 4 1/2 stars docking that 1/2 star only for the size .
The Micro seeemed like an iPod for less.
 It's a lot of fun and really tests your reflexes.
so i admit it... i wanted a zen micro, because the appeal of the iPod was overshadowed by it's annoying trendy hipster popularity and i felt better about myself for choosing a rip off version of that trendy hipster popularity.
iPod will change the way you enjoy music!
quite simply , the firmware and / or the os that control this thing is not ready for prime time .
i was able to improve things a bit by using the units equalizer and boosting the base .
The touch sreen navigation will take a little getting used to, but once you do, and while the Zen is still alive, it's a great alternative to the marching in lock step with the click wheel commies.
When I opened the box, I was shocked by the size of this thing... It's TINY!
It's a plug n play device, recognized as MASS STORAGE DEVICE on any windows xp computer.
simply not as friendly for functional as an ipod .
i had to sit on the phone with customer support for 2 hours and they did not help at all .
The iPod gets it right, the Carbon doesn't.
 All the "cool" features of the mini, but with 20GB instead of 5.
About 1/2 inch thick, with the face dimensions the size of a credit card, it can be slipped in a pocket or carried easily in the han!d.
  Buy the 20GB instead of the Mini
finally the software used to put all the songs into it is vastly inferior to itunes on two levels , first it is poorly integrated into the overall player and clunky to use especially with tagging and second the wma audio format sucks , flat out sucks in terms of sound quality compared with the vastly superior aac format the apple ipod uses and it sticks you with one of the sub par paid music services such as napster instead of allowing to use the itunes store , which , if you ever plan to pay for your music , is by far the best .
ok , im writing yet another review , about a week from my previous one .
the nomad is sent back to creative labs .
crappy headphones .
 There is an alarm and timer, but most MP3 players have this feature.
software is easy to use ( although redhat software is better , but costs money )
Frustrated, I exchanged the player only to get another faulty one!
When it's working, it's great but it is very tempermental.
so now i 've got to call their customer " service " ( of course , no 800 number ) to send the thing back .
Update the firmware which can be found on the Creative web site.
a little weighty ( 9 ounces ... no biggie ) , but otherwise fine .
this is an edited review , now that i have had time to use the device .
the setup and transfer process was cake for me .
About the product:  The Zen Micro is a sleek, stylish device that caters not just to "hip" youngsters but to people of all walks of life who like to listen on the go without having to worry frequently about battery life, size, or the "awkward" factor.
basically wat happened , is that the hard drive failed .
However, after holding an ipod at circuit city, I knew I had to have one.
when the previous versions of the zens were shipped with musicmatch , people had this problem because musicmatch creates both sets of tags , which seem to confuse the zen xtra .
the little jog dial seems weak and quirky and i hope i do n't figure out a way to break it .
the unit itself did lock up a few times and i had to hit the reset button but that was a fairly painless process as well .
 You pay $300 for the iPod itself, then $100 to get the battery fixed.
had to cut out a window using a swiss army knife .
Both are EXTREMELY user friendly and take minutes to get used to.
And so far, I have been very, very happy with my Zen Micro.
anyway, my wife got this for me for my birthday and I love the thing.
 The entire database is set up flawlessly and really works well.
Today, the Creative Zen Micro proves it, too, gets it right.
 I thought the clickwheel sounded great, but after trying it found it awkward.
sound quality was the same between the two , but the zen did have more sound adjustments with the normal eax features .
i thought i 'd have to buy a set of headphones to use with it , but the included earbuds work quite well .
ripping your songs and creating playlists could n't be any easier .
4 ) a set of speakers and a wireless transmitter are accessories that will add to your player 's usability ( the latter will allow you to play it on your car radio , home receiver , etc. )
i can highly recommend this product because of its ease of use ( hardware and software ) , playback quality and value for the price .
the controls are somewhat harder to use , and there are some oddities about the software tagging system , but most people can live with this .
Comments such as "it's stylish" or "it looks cool" or "everyone has it" don't nesseseraly make something good.
yet after ensuring that all the id3 tags are in order ( with the software which is actually not as bad as people make it out ) it actually turns out to be really handy .
 I wish I had a long time ago.
therefore im saying im returning it right now , and i will see wat happens with my next zen xtra ( same replacement ) .
its ability to serve as a back-up for my music collection is a huge plus.
thank you very much , and go out and get yourself a nomad !
3 ) folders cannot be created for the audio files .
my last mp3 player 's screen drove me nuts .
If only only it was that simple.
The solution?
zennx 's capacity / price ratio on the 30g model ( $ 10/gig ) ) trumps ipod 's 30g model ( $ 14/gig ).
after playing with this little device , i do n't know why i would look at an ipod with the same space when it costs $ 500 and i got mine for a little more than half that price !
It is best to protect the iPod in a case of some kind.
I'm still trying to manage the thing myself, but I've found that if you put the sensitivity to low it is fine.
typically people use 96kbs to 320 kps.
 Has the click wheel and the ability to scan through thousnds of songs and organizes them great.
the nomad is only sligtly larger than an ipod .
I loaded a lot of photos into it and they display very clearly for such a small screen and, very importantly, the transition from one photo to the next is instantaneous.
buy this for the storage and price , avoid it if you know nothing about computers .
The sound is very nice.
The sound quality is superb, much better than that of an iPod, in my opinion.
  Cons Breaks easily.
depressing the scroll button ( for selecting ) is not always responsive .
Putting the Micro into your pocket could trigger just about anything (unless the hold feature is improved: it asks if you want to "unhold" for every button up press) Second, I'm worried about the durability of the player.
its really cool .
it is great to no longer wonder what music i want to take with me for a cross country flight or a two week trip - now i just take everything .
The Battery does not last 12 hours.
the face-plate , which pops out for the battery , pops open by itself every 10 minutes or so .
the only beef i can raise in this regard is the pop-off face , that sometimes comes off a bit easily , but besides that it 's perfect .
the ipod uses a smaller ( and more expensive ) drive ( 1.8 " ) .
compared to musicmatch , the software has a better filing system and easier to use .
after using it for a few weeks ( the amount of time before the hard drive crashed ) it revealed a few of its shortcommings .
when i first purchased the unit i downloaded the firmware update that was available on their website .
i have n't figured it out yet .
a dock is unnecessary as the charger and usb cable do the necessary .
Creative has been making computer sound equipment for decades and with the zen micro it finally has something with enough quality and, yes, charm to win a nice size of the digital player pie.
If you want a wall-socket recharging cord, you have to dish out somewhere between $30 and $35, plus shipping and handling, for a cord that cost less than $1 to manufacture and market.
About the Ipod: it has it's downfalls as well.
The radio and voice recording are nice.
Now the downside:  One of the features that factored into my choice of a Micro!
you know why ?
i ended up suing windows player to make mp3 's ( actually wma files ) and then using the probram to transfer .
You can only copy songs you've downloaded for free or ripped from a CD.
No need to install the iTunes.
The battery is also convenient, but could have been better, such as the Zen Touch's battery (but at least this one is removable).
the songs do n't play one after another like on a cd .
I've dropped the device several times onto hard surfaces, and it still works flawlessly.
It's a good way to pass the time.
One of the other reviewers said get the neoprene case from marware, which is great advice.
the controls are somewhat harder to use than the ipod , but i have gotten use to them , and even at the beginning did not think would justify the huge difference in price .
i eventually gave up with customer support and worked on fixing the problem myself .
It looks sleek and modern.
+Battery life is awesome IF you upgrade the firmware [requires a windows pc] OR make sure to always plug the ac adapter into the player before plugging into the outlet +Awesome sound quality... I mean it is Creative right?
the scroll wheel , to be blunt , sucks .
- great value 40gb vs 10 gb ipod for the price
do not buy this product --
like the zen , the karma does not support folders and is not designed to be a data storage device .
So tack on a scroll wheel and... you still have to compete against the intuitive OS-based application that an iPod offers the user.
The battery issue is superficially a concern, but any reasonable solder-jockey (such as myself :-) can pop in a new one when the time comes (based upon the plentiful info gained from a google for 'ipod battery replacement').
the screen is covered , so to make any new selections you have to open it .
Also, the latest version of the firmware seems to actual deliver (in fact, more than deliver) the 12 hour battery life the specifications claim.
the bottom line , i 'll still watch the progress of iriver hdd players and if they produce 40 gb player i 'll will sell my nomad and buy iriver .
then it rips the tunes into mp3s and puts them on your computer .
and supply those stupid white Headphones.
all in all though i 'm very happy with my new mp3 player .
seems it is always difficult to press to make a selection .
The Zen Micro (mine's black) has a lot going for it.
the scroll wheel is a big improvement over the ipod touchpad .
As for the warrenty, i havent seen it yet, but i fear for a short on!
many have complained about the software included but in my opinion it 's easy to use and effective .
Let's just say it's no coincidence I put "Foxy Lady" on there.
The battery is removable.
of course , unlike that person i will mention that i upgraded the firmware to 1.23 . 00. but i did transfer files before the upgrade without problem too .
cons :
ipod can be used as an external disk , and apparently stores files without problem .
 But really, EVERYONE I've seen with an iPod leaves them off.
When I finally couldn't take it anymore, I decided to pull the trigger on the Zen Micro.
No inbox accessories-- An arm strap, belt strap, case, or anything would be nice, but nope... Moveable parts-- This makes me almost want to keep my 3rd gen over a 4th; with moveable parts, its easy to damage an iPod at a gym, so this is for more casual listeners; note the iPod Mini doesn't have moveable parts and is made of titanium.
no-one mentions whether there is a stop button , but the photos do n't show one .
I just tried to move a load of plain data files from my home computer to my office work computer, and it is promting me to install Zen Micro software, etc....
the earbuds that come with it are n't that bad .
Limitations: - Not a lot of original accessories like the iPod.
with this mp3 player you get much more memory for much less than an ipod .
the sound quality is also nice ... after i hooked up my sony headphones instead of those factory earbuds it comes with .
Anyhow, adding music to the player is easy.
and if you have 2500 songs, as you might very well, you will be reluctant to edit the clip properties of 2500 files.
ts with Sennheiser HD-497 phones.
all-in-all , this is another excellent creative product .
when plugged in , it does n't lag the computer like the archos did ... unless you are doing a massive transfer of data in one load .
- Integration with Media Player.
In fact, it's much better than the iPod in that regard.
almost half what an ipod would cost you !
The touch pad does take a little getting used to.
flat out
in a quick summation , here is what i found .
1 .
i purchased this mp3 player just last night after doing some scouting around .
 BATTERY: Compared to the other players on the market, the iPod has one of the worst batteries around.
also , the nomad 's 14 hours of battery life versus 8 is handy .
Closing: For everyone who is shallow and buys the Ipod only becouse of it's looks (i'm not saying it's necissarily bad), here's a joke: What did the Pencil Sharpener say to t!
if you read reviews for the 4 main contenders in this market - the ipod , creative zen , rio karma and iriver ihp - you 'll notice that each has their pros and cons ; none are perfect and you should decide whether you want to take to take the plunge now or later .
 I had the 15G iPod of the previous incarnation.
she also got me an iRiver FM modulator that plugs into the ligher outlet, so i can play it through my regular radio.
if your view in life is that you are going to pay $ x00 to get a device then it must be near ideal - ruggedly constructed , fault proof , good product support , easy to use software - then do yourself a favor and do n't buy yet .
i can 't imagine why i would spend hundreds of dollars more to have an ipod .
First of all, why does every single piece of media library software that comes with an MP3 player suck?
that 's been my experience .
i love my new nomad , its great !
i would recommend replacing the existing software with the " notmad explorer , " which is simpler to use and can be found on the internet .
To transfer songs requires you to pay 99 cents.
so you can plug your nomad directly into your stereo or use a car adapter , but you do n't get the quality from a true line out jack .
A few reviewers have also complained about the printed manual which is probably one of the biggest wastes of paper ever included with an electronic device.
well i have to say that this product is very good i mean it might be a little big but it still fits in your pocket .
- the top that covered the battery kept poping off without much of a touch near the bottom latch .
 I am a big fan of iTunes, simply because it is terribly fast and convenient - IF you are buying the songs from the iTunes site.
They are sensitive and accurate (perhaps too accurate, it senses through t-shirt cloth, but the touchpad can be locked), but easy to clean, unlike buttons.
It's a tad too sensitive for a first time user (my family member, however, had no problem with it), and it drove me nuts at first.
it 's a dedicated music playing device , anyway , so this serves it better .
They are bold colors, not the (personally) irratating toned down 'light' Ipod colors.
I love the touchpade controls.
the upgrade went smoothly and was easy to do if you can follow directions .
Overall, it does its basic function very well, but we expect more from the mp3 players today and the Zen Micro does not rise to the occassion.
win software can be a little cranky , but much more easier to customize to your needs .
all in all suprisingly easy to use .
this was the closest alternative and best buy for this type .
value : comparing data storage with price .
 The other thing is the earbuds.
i had never loaded my cds on to my home computer , using my work computer instead .
P.S.  The only snag I encountered while initially configuring the device was trying to hook up the Micro to a front USB port.  The bus for the front port on my motherboard did not have enough power; after connecting it to the rear ports, it works perfectly.
30gb is more than enough for most people .
Pick your favorite color and buy it.
- Audio Formats: supports both MP3, WMA... And yeah, WAV too.
i got an rma from creative , sent my player in to them for repairs .
(That was a major turn off).
perhaps because of its smaller user base there is also a lack of accessories .
( wo n't leave copy on your computer . )
You can compress the files for more storage space before you start the transfer.
i shopped around for a while before buying a hard-drive mp3 player .
Right out of the box, I loved it, better features than the Ipod, great sound quality and no limitations on what music sources I can use.
the pros :
price , along with the replaceable battery ( which i understand apple charges a small fortune to replace - as well as the hassle of returning it ) were the two main factors on why i picked the nomad .
oh ... and file transfers are fast & easy .
hehe , my bad .
+ the memory ( 40 gb ) is staggering .
These issues knock a single star off the review.
But seriously though, how bout we work on the durability thing for the next gen.
i know this unit will have problems in the future and the $ 40 for the 2 year " no questions asked " replacement warranty will be worth it , since creative will only warrant it for 90 days - which in itself is totally ridiculous !
I got it to use with the new $5-per-month service from Yahoo (Music Unlimited,) and despite the above issues, I love it.
To me, the key elements that must be present in an MP3 player are as follows:  -Fast transference of songs to player -Well-designed computer-side interface -Easy menu navigation and well-designed control scheme -Good sound (duh) -Reasonable battery time (~6 Hours)  That's it?
pros : huge storage capacity for the price , easy to navigate , can modify existing playlists on the fly , has a removable battery
creating playlists using the included software to minimize issue 3 was n't as easy as i would have liked .
I got my Zen Micro last week.
 I have the e3c's, and man does everything on the ipod sound great.
I think sound quality should be the first and foremost feature, and the Zen is leaps and bounds better in sound quality, with no need to upgrade the earphones.
They now offer Yahoo Music Engine, wich is like Napster to Go, but at a fraction fo the price.
just easily drag and drop files into the nomad explorer and from there you easily alter id tags and sort your music according to your liking , by artist , song title , genre , etc.
After a year, your battery is dead and you need to replace it with a new one.
Of all the players that I have owned in the past (6 of them), all of them have had drawbacks and problems.
All of my files are mp3 or wma, Windows Media Player is my primary music suite, i use it to burn, play, rip, and sync.
I imagine if I left my player untouched (no backlight) it could play for considerably more than 12 hours at a low volume level.
 And I'm really not that rough with things!
i do n't think i will ever use the full 30gb .
i will never buy a creative product again .
Infuriating! Nearly all other MP-3 producing companies include a recharging cord with their product that can be plugged into a wall socket.
software - the software is crap .
They responded -after I told them I have a Zen Micro and suggested that my "jukebox" needed to be purged.
and maybe the answer is to buy an ipod .
m3u files are used by most mp3 players like musicmatch and winamp , but not creative - without notmad you need to manually recreate your playlists ) ; it does n't care what software you use to rip or catalog your music - creative or any other company - all my 12.5 gb of music were transferred to the zen with correct tags - hooray !
sending the unit to the company of purchase which costs about $90), the ability to record with a built-in microphone (great for recording reminders and meetings), very sturdy construction, and not to mention...the sound quality is excellent!
his is what I get for my $200 on this MP3 player?
its great .
it's a great looking, easy-to-use device but it's the sound quality which is truly amazing -- far better than my Sony mini-disc player.
after that it seems like you 're on your own .
it did lock up on me a couple of times .
i did n't even try the included software .
what a disappointment .
software - music match jukebox is n't the greatest , the search funtion is n't fast even when accessing it with the hotkey shortcut .
flaws :
 Features: click wheel to navigate; ability to work with Windows or Mac; optional backlighting (you can have it on all the time, or have it shut off to save battery power after 5, 10, or 20 seconds); ability to download PDA info; automatic or manual download from iTunes when iPod is plugged into your computer.
i listened to it for several days before needing to recharge them .
I had the second one for less than two weeks when I noticed a rattling/humming/buzzing sound while music was played.
the player itself has all sorts of problems .
i got every song i had downloaded to the player within a day or so .
then when i argued with them they told me that they would pick it up.
Why?
if you purchase this product , definitely rip your songs through windows media player .
what 's going on creative labs ?
for those of us that like to tinker , i think creative offers some advantages .
i can 't comment on the quality of the audio , because it was back at the store before i ripped a single cd .
The included headphones suck, so get your own.
Even the "shorter" battery life, though, has not impaired my positive experience with the Zen Micro in any way.
i initially loaded about 3700 tracks with the intent of ripping the majority of my remaining cds to mp3 .
If you do not care about sound/music quality in the least, and don't mind the ability to store 800 songs less than promised, get the creative zen micro.
With the right firmware, drag and drop to and from the player like any other jump drive.
review of zen xtra - 40 gb
and man ... i had to work to put my chinese songs on the player ... because i had the actual chinese names of the songs as the title ..
the black fly wheel feels pretty cheap & is uncomfortable to use .
hope i 've been of some help .
this is pretty cool .
it is small overall , bigger than the ipod , but keep in mind that this is because different , less expensive but not necessarily inferior technology is used in the zx .
bought the 30gb xtra a couple of weeks ago , and so far it has been excellent .
can 't complain and i recommend it over all the other players , just hope that remote will come out soon .
- the flywheel you use for most of the navigation was n't in tightly and it was uneven as far as the amount of pressure to make it engage .
the software interface supplied was very easy to use but i went ahead and got red chair 's " notmad " software because of some advanced features i wanted .
i am ripping my cd collection into 160 kbps wma files ; this gives an average of around 60-65 mb per cd , good for about 900 cds in the ~ 57,000 mb of free memory available to me .
 Think about it for a minute - the 20 GB holds 5,000 songs: more than you're ever likely to need at any one time.
so far i have no complaints and i recommend this to anyone who wants quality over appearance , also anyone who wants a harddrive based mp3 player and wants to pay next to nothing .
it is a beast .
unlike the ipod , this is fully windows compatible and can be used right out of the box .
the combination of the price , storage size , and player features makes this player the best on the market .
yeah i agree the earbuds are pretty crap , replace them .
Apple has tried to hide something from you: most people don't actually need more than a few gigs at most.
) Button sensitivity: Even reduced to the lowest sensitivity setting, the buttons are far two sensitive, really takes some getting use to, and even then, it is still too sensitive.
first of all , many actions that the player utilizes do n't make sense . .
 It's really no big deal to me, but is worth mentioning.
the product manufacturer promised me 14 hours , and what i recieved was 6-8 .
3.
i decided to save the $ $ and opted for the zen xtra ... and i was not disappointed .
and i am hoping the static i heard when using eax was a blip ...
considering the price and specs , this might be the best buy out there for a large memory mp3 player .
I'm still figuring out why.
This is good for the businessmen who listen to music on their commute and can rely on the iPod to even carry around some of their word documents.
it 'll take 10-15 business days for them to decide form when they get it .
also , if i had already loaded and tagged by cds on my home computer , this would not have been an issue .
the setup process for the nomad is infuriating , and the interface with the player is sub-par .
However, if there was one thing I liked about the creative, it would be the car adapter.
summary
honestly , i love this player .
pros :
 Finally, if your battery gives out, you can use any number of reputable iPod services to swap it out for <$50 and you're good to go for another 2.5 years (or longer if battery technology improves.)
buy the re-seller 's extended warranty and save yourself a headache for the problems you will have later , after all it is a hard drive and it will die or have issues over time ( probably sooner than later ) .
You can use it as a storage Hard Drive.
i just put it on " shuffle " , sit back , and enjoy the eclectic mix that almost 3,000 tunes offer !
The good news is that the creative support is very responsive and after some emails and postal exchanges, i had a new zen.
a short range fm transmitter would be much nicer .
 In conclusion, I gave the iPod a 4/5 because anything this expensive should would work just about flawlessly.
(It had locked up multiple times previously, but always managed to work afterwards) This time, the touch screen wouldn't respond to me and none of the buttons worked.
it 's really a shame , because otherwise , creative mp3 players are very good , and have the best sound quality of any players on the market .
 The!  sound quality is great.
 But is it worth all the hype?
cons :
now i have not owned other mp3 players as i was waiting until they matured , but since i received it as a gift i now have this one .
i think the ipod versus zen typifies differences between apple and win machines .
just be aware of it .
Also, you have to use it with iTunes - or they'll sue, dammit!  But iTunes is about as good as anything.
I ordered from Amazon and got the Limited Edition package that includes a free battery!
i was able to return it to the retailer where i bought it and got a replacement .
I'm not professing to be a consumer-survey corporation, but I don't know *anyone* with an iTunes account.
at this time , i decided to turn the player on , and much to my surprise it comes with quite the little library of classical music , one of which is a childhood favorite , bach 's air .
It's faster than WMP.
i found using mediasource to load your songs to the nomad jukebox to be much easier and faster than using windows explorer .
when i got the ipod, i slid the box out of its sheath and the whole thing tumbled out!
All I can say is what a wonderful choice!
the new organizer software that ships with the nomad zen xtra could n't be easier to use .
I've played around with a friend's iPod a couple times and it IS a cool unit.
so far , however , i 'm a very happy customer .
whatever you do , do n't buy this product .
Ask yourself how often you've seen battery covers break on consumer electronics.
it seems like movement , even small movement , causes skipping in playback and even the device freezing .
player[-][s]However, this one makes an ipod sound like your old LP's, so even if you're a casual listener, I'd advise that you avoid the purchase of this product. Terrible.
but you do n't have to be .
i do n't care how it looks and i always drive so the size is not important to me .
just before we all spent a couple weeks in an rv together .
What's the point of having "good audio" in your hand when your g/f thinks you have no taste whatsoever and your friends laugh their heads off while proudly showing off their iPod Mini?
subsequent behavior even worse .
i was n't sure how long it would take before it would break .
It has Apple insipid written all over it.
The problem with my iPod.
However, in my mind, $299 is a lot to pay for a device that will only last 18 MONTHS.
i have had this player for 2 weeks , i will be returning it for an exchange in the hopes that the locking problem and scroll wheel are problems with this particular unit .
chargeable battery runs out; thereby, waiting 3 weeks to get it back, and possibly with all of your music erased.
I have a ton of cds and I make a mess trying to organize them into things.
so it is probably " just bad luck " on my part that the personal notebook i own had this install error .
they have a whole bunch of devices that all have the same-sounding name ( and they are long ) .
Why go in circles to find something you want? (  :)  )
* removable battery
accept that there will be better devices ( or new generations of these ones ) in a year or two that will cost less .
a 256 mb player ( roughly 60 songs for me ) is about x amount of dollars but a 30 gb ( 30,000 mb ) player ( roughly 6,650 songs ) sells for only slightly more .
there are plenty other features that i have n't checked out , but i 'm sure i soon will .
This is a perfect blend to accomplish both tasks.
So I decided on the black one.
After reading reviews and talking to a few friends, I decided on the Zen.
In conclusion, this player is beautiful.
e again.
You have to be in an area with good reception, but where I live I can get most of my favorite stations quite well.
these are minor problems , and i list them to save anyone else the trouble of discovering them .
Looks nice but the conrols are awkward and the entire front is touch sensitive.
second , the " automatic " sync on creative lets you review the songs before it begins its transfer .
overall : small , sounds great , and less expensive than apple 's overpriced ipod !
the flap completely covers the screen because there is no window to see it .
i have had the nomad jukebox for about three weeks now , and i am very happy with it .
maybe i 'll get lucky with the next one .
other than that this thing is great ...
On the other hand, you get terrible sound quality.
