this is an edited review , now that i have had time to use the device .
while , there are flaws with the machine , the xtra gets five stars because of its affordability .
it is the most bang-for-the-buck out there .
like it 's predecessor , the quickly revised nx , this player boasts a decent size and weight , a relatively-intuitive navigational system that categorizes based on id3 tags , and excellent sound ( widely known to be better than ipod - not surprising considering the number of years creative has been in the audio peripheral business ) .
the xtra improves upon the zen nx with a larger , now-blue backlit screen , which is infinitely better .
further , the xtra doubles the maximum filecount capacity to 16000 mp3 .
this is especially useful for those who listen mostly to pop music and store all those short ditties .
when compared to the ipod the zen xtra falls short , but only by a bit .
yes the ipod is smaller , but not $ 200 worth , which is the premium you 'll pay for an equivalent capacity model .
yes , the ipod looks in tune with the carefully articulated urban-hipster persona thats become popular as of late , but sure-as-hell is n't worth the $ 200 premium ( unless you are just dying to match your music player with that volkswagen beetle and urban outfitters wardrobe ) .
for me , i 'll save that cash for another purchase .
before i decided to get this player , i did my research .
i looked up the ipod , the dell jukebox , and the samsung napster player .
i chose this one because from what i read , it was the best deal for the money .
another reason i got it is because you can put wma files on it .
that takes up half the space of mp3 's .
that 's important because i have a lot of music .
the software is great .
you can sort your music by artist , title , album , or genre , and you can play music based on those categories .
transfering is easy , the software makes everythig pretty easy .
even the battery life is great - it advertises 14 hours , it 's actually a little less but still good .
only 1 problem , no accessories ... yet .
i hope it 's because it 's new and they are not out yet , but being without a remote is hard .
they player 's interface itself is also very easy to use .
can 't complain and i recommend it over all the other players , just hope that remote will come out soon .
get it , it 's woth every penny ! !
i was a little concerned to be the black sheep buying this player instead of the incredibly overpriced apple i-pod .
i 've had it for a week now , do n't regret the purchase one bit , and i never leave home without it .
if you have any doubts about this player , well do n't .
pros :
software is easy to use ( although redhat software is better , but costs money )
much cheaper than i-pod good looking player ( beautiful blue back-lit screen ) if you 've read about the player , some have complained about the lack of a viewing hole for the face when the case is on , but this is good because the face does n't get damaged / scratched fast transfer rate
no issues as of yet
cons :
you 're going to need to buy new headphones , the stock ones suck
hopefully , this player will out sell the ridculously over-hyped i-pod .
if you want to be a poser and follow the herd , mooooooh , then buy the i-pod .
otherwise , be smart , save the cash .
for me the sound of the music is what is important .
the zen xtra sounds great with good headphone and well recored mp3s .
navigation is a bit tricky and takes getting used to but the included pdf instructions cover the operation pretty well .
at 8 ounces it is pretty light but not as light as the ipod .
the battery is replaceable ( a real plus ) and there is a leather case ( another real plus ) .
i suppose that you could jog with it but it seems to be made for the enjoyment of music .
so far the software for the pc works easily .
by the way , it looks nice also .
this thing kicks mighty apple butt !
i would have given this thing 4.5 stars but since i can 't , i 'll be sweet and give it the full 5 stars .
it 's worth it .
i personally do n't like apple or their business practices ( screwing resellers , customers and employees left and right ) so i shopped around for something else .
after finally stumbling upon this zen nx player , i knew i had found what i was looking for .
my two main requirements were longer battery life and lower price : i found both .
this thing lasted well over 14 hours when i played it straight for the first time .
the zen nx is $ 100 cheaper than the ipod of the same size , so you have to wonder just how much apple 's markup is anyway !
the sound is excellent , but a tip : get a real pair of headphones .
you wo n't appreciate the quality this thing has to offer unless you are using a good set of cans.
the controls are on the side instead of on the front , which i like , because that 's where my thumb is when i hold the thing !
the scroll wheel is a big improvement over the ipod touchpad .
it could be a little bit bigger , but it 's easy to get used to .
the screen may be a little smaller , but it is very readable and does n't come in the overused blue .
it does n't have firewire , not a real complaint since most windows users do n't generally have firewire cards themselves .
( i would have appreciated having a firewire plug , however )
the included leather pouch is a big plus : it actually protects the unit well , something a lot of ' carrying cases ' fail to do with other audio devices .
other plusses : changable battery , loads of presets for environments , decent construction , still quite small and light despite being slightly bigger than an ipod .
( did i mention you can actually change the battery ? hello ? apple ? are you listening ? )
i probably would have liked to have a player in something other than silver / metallic ... like the battery adapters on their usb thumbdrive ( muvo nx ) mp3 player models .
since the front plate is removable to access the battery compartment , aftermarket alternate covers would not be difficult or expensive to make .
overall : small , sounds great , and less expensive than apple 's overpriced ipod !
( batteries last longer too ! )
i shopped around for a month looking for a good mp3 player , and all i heard was how good the i-pod was .
after messing with it at a store i noticed how bad the i-pod was .
it was marked up increadably high compared to other models ( almost $ 500 for a 30gb ) , and theres was nothing about it that made it worth that much money .
the creative labs zen xtra has all the features the i-pod has and if you get if from amazon your only going to pay $ 300 for this great player .
i 've had it for about 2 weeks and it 's the best player i 've seen , and used , ever .
the music is easy to get to ( all of the menus are easy to understand despite what alot of i-pod owners say ) and if you know how to search for an artist by name online , then you can do the same with the zen .
the screen is very easy to read and the blue light is bright enough to read at night , but dim enough so it does n't blind you when you stare too long .
all in all this a great player that blows the i-pod away , with easy to use and understand features , software that is simple to understand and use , and a great sound ( which is all that matters in a mp3 player ) .
just get some new headphones and your set .
within 5 minutes i was able to transfer files .
it 's a very intuitive program .
i had no problems following their installation instructions .
the menus are very easy to navigate .
the only complaint i have is that when you push in the scroll wheel to select , you have to push straight in or it sticks .
the other controls are all very easy to use .
it has several play options , one of the best is an option to shuffle , based on all or a certain playlist .
the only downside i see is that it does n't look like you can manage playlists from the nomad , it has to be done from the computer .
unlike the ipod , this is fully windows compatible and can be used right out of the box .
for ipod you have to buy a cable and it is n't compatible with all windows pcs.
it also costs a lot less than the ipod .
the earbuds that come with it are n't that bad .
they 're pretty comfortable , stay in place and deliver a decent audio quality .
this is a good deal for music and data storage .
one thing i should note is that i have only had this product for one day , so there are many options i have not explored .
the main problem with the nomad jukebox zen xtra 30 gb is the software .
on my relatively new computer ( p4 with windows xp and usb 2.0 ) , the os complained about the installation of the drivers .
despite the instructions insisting that the process was fairly automatic , i had to install the usb drivers and the nomad interface software manually .
the interface software itself , which should be user-friendly , was anything but easy-to-use .
with the nomad explorer software , songs should be drag-and-drop .
i have not yet tried the cd-ripping program .
the player itself has all sorts of problems .
the face-plate , which pops out for the battery , pops open by itself every 10 minutes or so .
the player hangs up on file transfer every once-in-a-while , prompting a reset .
the scroll button is overly sensitive at times ; not sensitive enough at others .
depressing the scroll button ( for selecting ) is not always responsive .
the scroll bar problems make the task of creating playlists more frustrating .
on the positive side , the sound of the player is pretty good , once you have everything configured .
i have n't had time to really push this player to the limit , but audio aspects on the nomad are satisfactory , as should be expected from creative labs .
overall , a very disappointing product .
the setup process for the nomad is infuriating , and the interface with the player is sub-par .
the player 's mechanics are also flawed .
although the sound-quality is good , it takes more than good sound on a portable-mp 3 player to result in a good product .
i was trying to decide whether or not i should go with the 40 gb ipod or this 30 gb zen xtra .
when it came down to it , the price on this player is hard to beat .
if you want the other accessories the ipod offer , maybe that 's where you should go .. .
this is a great investment for someone like me who enjoys music and hates carrying multiple cds .
i just transfered over some 40 cds and have plenty of space left for me .
one beef is the scroll , it does n't work as well as i 'd like .
other than that this thing is great ...
enjoy !
zennx 's replaceable battery was the deciding factor in my purchase of zennx over ipod .
all rechargeable batteries lose their holding power over time ( around 2 years ) .
apple 's solution - pay apple another $ 400 + for a new ipod ( less a paltry discount ) .
the zennx will keep running for the price of a replacement battery , just like any other battery-powered appliance .
deficiencies with zennx are easily overcome with 3rd-party earphones ( $ 20 + ) and software ( $ 25 ).
notmad by red chair software is an explorer-based program that enables simple drag-and-drop transfer of music files from pc to zennx .
the blue-screen display in the zennx xtra model is an improvement , but the toggle switch is still tricky .
zennx 's capacity / price ratio on the 30g model ( $ 10/gig ) ) trumps ipod 's 30g model ( $ 14/gig ).
choosing zennx is a no-brainer when factoring in the cost of a new $ 400 + ipod every few years versus the $ 50 cost of replacing zennx 's rechargeable battery .
zennx hopefully will gain market share and prompt arrogant apple to lower prices and enable consumers to replace the battery .
update : apple recently announced that for $ 107 , it will replace the battery in ipods shipped to their factory .
lithium ion rechargeable batteries are good for 300-500 rechargings , so battery lifespan will vary according to your usage .
still , apple continues to squeeze dollars from consumers by not designing the battery to be replaceable .
i love my new nomad , its great !
now i dont have to lug around 80 cds if i dont know what i 'm going to want to listen to biking home .
this thing , while looking pretty cool , is not as sexy as the ipod .
for some this might be a problem , but for the price of a 30 gig ipod , you can get a 60gb nomad , the ipod simply pales in comparison .
the software is very easy to use , and within 30 minutes of opening my box , i was out and about listening to any one of my 80 cds .
the free ( i didnt know they still did that ) carrying case is really protective , and to me its the only accessory you need ( except good headphones ) .
on the subject of headphones , this thing seems like a normal mp3 player when you use the headphones they give you in the box , but invest 30 dollars in a nice pair and the sound quality goes up through the roof !
if you want a sexy , cool , accessory-availible mp3 player , by all means , get an ipod for a hundred dollars more ( or one for the same price that holds 1/3 of the music ) .
but if you want a great deal and a great mp3 player , get the nomad .
best electronic i 've bought since i was born .
flat out
i just sold my archos 20gb jukebox recorder after not being satisfied with it 's slow loading & difficult navigation , not to mention it froze quite a bit .
i was in search of a new item to take it 's place as my new mp3 player / harddrive .
for an early christmas gift , i got a zen xtra 40 gb player .
i refused to go for an ipod , i am not going to spend all that money just for the apple name and because it is " trendy " to have that player .
this was the closest alternative and best buy for this type .
after receiving my zen xtra 40gb mp3 player .. .
i will just say this :
i will never go back to my archos again ! !
so easy to set up , had some problems with my archos .
stayed up all night trying to figure out that thing .
just easily drag and drop files into the nomad explorer and from there you easily alter id tags and sort your music according to your liking , by artist , song title , genre , etc.
not only is it functional and runs super smooth & fast , but it is also eye candy .
very sleek & stylish as well as the screen options and visuals it has .
the leather case it comes with is pretty nice , similar to a pda style case and does hold and protect it perfectly .
all the buttons & neccessary lil ' gadgets are on the sides of the player which is nice for when you are holding it in the palm of your hand .
the sound quality is also nice ... after i hooked up my sony headphones instead of those factory earbuds it comes with .
lots of sound options , has an equalizer almost like winamp with the options .
navigation is so smooth and finding files is a cinch .
also navigating while playing music is a plus unlike my previous player .
it was impossible to do so before .
oh , and the screen saver feature is pretty sweet ^ _ ^
another plus in my book , no file limits !
i was limited to 999 files in a playlist with archos ' os , now i can have as many as i want .
i have over 2000 files in my playlist at the moment and the random does a nice job mixing it up .
i am quite happy having over 10 gigs of music stored on this baby as well as a few gigs of media files in the data folder .
now i can transport files to friends house with ease .
when plugged in , it does n't lag the computer like the archos did ... unless you are doing a massive transfer of data in one load .
after playing with this little device , i do n't know why i would look at an ipod with the same space when it costs $ 500 and i got mine for a little more than half that price !
i really have no complaints over this unit .
i really do recommend this to anyone in need of a new player .
in fact , my boyfriend is now going to invest into one of these suckers as well ... now he realizes that this is the best choice over his current archos and the ipod he was eyeing .
getting the program to install properly has been a living hell experience .
the cd just has too many problems with win xp .
i am going to have to try an online download and see if that works .
also , the instruction manual is very bad .
i have no complaints with this mp3 player .
getting files onto it is quick and painless .
then sorting the files is easy as pie .
and it holds sooooo much music and audio files .
my music demands are pretty intense and this handles those demands without problems .
also , the sound is wonderful ... my only gripe were those aweful earphones that this came with .
come on, at $ 300 they could at least put in a good pair of earphones .
sheesh ! !
the battery is nice .
i listened to it for several days before needing to recharge them .
the lcd screen was very large and readable .
thank you !
my last mp3 player 's screen drove me nuts .
a great buy .
compared to everything else in this category , this is most definately the best bang for the buck .
i think the whole zen line has been fairly innovative and reasonably priced , but it 's not really appropriate to compare the pricing of the zen line to the ipods ( although , the ipod is still way over priced ) .
you 're talking totally different hardware .
all of the zens use a standard notebook drive .
this puts the zen in line with players like the rca jukebox and the whole line of archos players ( the newer ones are a bit better than the original archos jukeboxes ... but i popped out the drive in my 20 gig jukebox recorder and put in a 60 gig drive and use it exclusively as a powered portable usb 2.0 drive ).
the ipod uses a smaller ( and more expensive ) drive ( 1.8 " ) .
the devices competing with the ipod are the iriver ihp 120 , the rio karma , and the philips hdd100 .
i should point out that the new rio karma is now down to about $ 280 and is reviewed readily as being as good as ( and better in some areas ) the ipod .
the 20 gig ipod still goes for just under $ 400 .
that 's a huge difference ... especially in this price range .
i can 't believe people continue to pay those prices .
advertising pays off i guess .. .
i doubt anyone has ever seen an add or commercial for any other mp3 player .
i gave the zen 5 stars because it 's excellent for the class that it is in and it 's not really appropriate to rate it based on players in a different class .
my personal favorite is the karma ( i currently own a karma , a zen usb 2.0 , a philips hdd100 , and an upgraded 60 gig archos jukebox recorder ).
i guess that 's why you so often see " ipodders " bashing every other player out there ( very often not knowing anything about them the whole " i spent $ 120 more for something not any better and so should you ... so i can feel better " thing .
i originally purchase a 30 gb nomad zen xtra as a portable mp3 player .
after fiddling around with it for a while , i notice a few dissapointments :
transfering - i could not get my songs to completely transfer via usb 1.1 or 2.0 .
it would only transfer 30 or so songs , and then come up with an error .
having 4000 or so mp3s , i never got more than 500 transfered .
scroll button - the scroll wheel was a nice idea to keep less clutter , but the button would sometimes get stuck or keep scrolling .
size - bigger than the ipod
software - music match jukebox is n't the greatest , the search funtion is n't fast even when accessing it with the hotkey shortcut .
after i went through the transer issue , i returned the zen xtra and purchased the 40 gig ipod .
song transfers were not an issue .
i transfered all 16 gigs in 15 minutes without any errors via firewire .
the navigion on it can be a little quirky , but still operates better than the zen 's did .
the ipod is also an attractable piece , being lightweight and small .
the casing scratches a little easy , but the glove cases work great to protect against this .
sound quality was the same between the two , but the zen did have more sound adjustments with the normal eax features .
i chose to keep the ipod and am very happy with the purchase .
granted it is a little more than the zen , it is well worth it .
itunes is a versatile program and i have n't had any issues with the ipod itself .
i love this player .
its great .
all i have to say is that i did freeze on me once , but it has n't done it since .
i love this player and would probably go with creative labs again .
the software was great , as long as you have an adminstrative user account ( windows xp ) .
i got every song i had downloaded to the player within a day or so .
it only took about 30 minutes to download everything , and that was about 950 songs .
anyway , this player is a great deal and i really love it .
first , the cons ... a tad bulky ... not the most asthetic looking player ... and does n't support a folder stucture .
the pro ...
way less expensive than the ipod .
my opinions :
personally , i do n't understand all the complaints about the interface .. .
i find it pretty easy to use ... and unlike the remote interface for the audigy 2 nx ( on the pc ) .. .
it actually gives the option to clear the previous playlist when i want to play another list .
meaning i do n't have to manually clear the list , and then load the new list .
the cons are n't really a big deal to me ... except one con that does annoy me is the way it stores files ... no folder structure ... and it 's based on the title of the songs ... many of my songs where seperated into folders ( on the pc ) ... and a few had same titles ... so i had to change the titles to make sure that i did n't have any that might be the same as another .
and man ... i had to work to put my chinese songs on the player ... because i had the actual chinese names of the songs as the title ..
and since the current language selection was english ( even though i think only the menu supports chinese , and not the track info ) ... all it saw were " ? " s and even though the songs had different names in chinese ..
if it had the same number of " ? " s then it would ask if you want to overwrite another song that just had the same number of " ? " s. . .
buyer beware ! sort your songs and adjust the titles accordingly ( maybe this applies to other players too , and not just the nomad , i do n't know ) .
i would 've still bought this drive even if i knew about this issue beforehand .
not counting the time i spent editing the songs ( i suppose i should 've done it anyway on my pc ) the transfer was pretty painless .
once you start sending files , it 'll continue until it 's done or it hits a song that has the same title as another song ... at which point you can skip , skip all , replace , replace all , or cancel .
and go from there ... if you chose one of the " all " options , then you do n't need to do anything until it 's done .
in two transfer batches ( first was english songs , then foreign languages ) , it did n't come up with any errors ( aside the duplicate name i mentioned ).
so i do n't know what the previous review that could n't do more than 30 songs is talking about .
of course , unlike that person i will mention that i upgraded the firmware to 1.23 . 00. but i did transfer files before the upgrade without problem too .
you should update the firmware before upgrading the drivers if you decide you need the newer drivers for the pc.
the mediasource itself was flaky ... crashing my explorer twice within the first hour ( the crash did n't require a reboot ) ... but after another reboot , it has n't crashed since .
did i mention i 've already dropped it once ?
that was n't pretty .
there 's a dent on the upper-back-right and lower-back-right corners ... not too obvious unless you 're up close .
hehe , my bad .
that 's all for now .
bought the 30gb xtra a couple of weeks ago , and so far it has been excellent .
i still have over 19gb left , and already have over 200 cd 's on it .
i 'll have to borrow cd 's to rip from friends to even come close to filling the thing .
i 'm not sure why people have problems with either the interface of the nomad , or the software that comes with the unit .
both are very easy to learn & use , and intuitive enough for even a novice .
besides user error ( surprise , surprise ) , it 's hard to imagine people having trouble with either .
ripping & transferring tunes is basic , and pretty fast ( even on a 1.1 usb ) .
people also have complained about the case not having a window , but that 's not really a big deal to me either -- the case is sturdy and offers very good protection .
it 's easy enough to pop it open to see what song you 're listening to .
the sound quality is excellent ( and i 'm fussy with that stuff ) , the unit looks cool , screen is bright and easy to read , and the replaceable battery means a major advantage over the ipod ( besides the price , but everyone knows that ) .
you of course have some good customization options with the unit as well ( sound presets , navigating options , playlists , etc ) .
i just put it on " shuffle " , sit back , and enjoy the eclectic mix that almost 3,000 tunes offer !
the only thing i 'm concerned about is the quality / longevity of the buttons on the thing .
my " fast forward " button works , but it takes a little extra pressure on it to make it go .
not an urgent issue , as it still works .. .
all other buttons are pretty sensitive to touch and work well .
i 'll have to see if this becomes a problem down the road .
but i 've already emailed creative tech support about it , and gotten timely responses - they will fix it for me if necessary .. .
we 'll see if i need them to .
sure , it 's a little bigger than the ipod , but not by much .
this is not the unit you should use if you go jogging anyway .
it still fits in the palm of your hand , and it 's not heavy .
i use mine at the office , in the car ( with a cassette adapter ) , and will be taking it on a flight back east for the holiday .
yes .
get better headphones .
rip your tunes at 192kb if you like , alhthough 128kb sounds just dandy , and you 'll get more tunes stored on it .
bottom line ... great product , unbeatable price .
i got mine for $ 160 less than the ipod 30gb ( got an extra $ 30 off for applying for an amazon visa ... thanks amazon ! )
basic shipping was a bit slow , but that 's okay .
i got it now , and i 'm diggin ' it .
awful , awful , awful .
unlike my 3 other mp3 players , this thing will only work properly if you have id3 tags on all of your tracks .
if you do n't have tags , it 'll lump all of your tracks into the same directory and they cannot be searched via artist or album as the zen does not recognize folders .
it 's a shame , but mine is going back .
bummer as it has great sound quality .
i just received my 40gb zen xtra yesterday and i 'm extremely pleased with it .
my brother bought an ipod this past summer and my dad bought the original zen around the same time ..
just before we all spent a couple weeks in an rv together .
the ipod is a neat piece of machinery but after screwing around with both of them i think the zen products are the way to go .
so i requested and received a zen xtra as a christmas gift .
the setup and transfer process was cake for me .
i just used the explorer program to move my songs to my player .
i did have to put a little work into renaming some duplicate file names to get all my music on my zen xtra but it was n't a big problem .
the explorer program did shut down a couple times while i was renaming titles and changing genres but i did n't have to reboot the computer or anything , just open up explorer again .
it 's been so long since i 've had a program not shut down on me in windows that i hardly even noticed that it happened .
that 's probably a bad thing .
the unit itself did lock up a few times and i had to hit the reset button but that was a fairly painless process as well .
it was always after it finished a process or something , so it did n't cause any file errors .
now that i have all my music on it there has n't been any more problems .
the screen is large and bright and has all the info i need where i need it .
i have n't tried setting up any playlists yet so i can 't comment on any problems there .
the eax mode that keeps the volume at the same level for any song will come in handy when i take my holiday plane rides .
the little jog dial seems weak and quirky and i hope i do n't figure out a way to break it .
the dial on the original zen was perfect and i wish it was on this model .
all in all though i 'm very happy with my new mp3 player .
i 'll admit that i 'd own an ipod if i had money to burn , but for the money this is a much better buy .
highly recommended !
i purchased the nomad jukebox zen xtra 40gb and it is fantastic !
i have windows xp pro and when installing the enclosed software i did receive a message that there was a problem installing the driver .
this was quickly and easily fixed by going to the creative web site and downloaded then installed the updated driver .
i found using the supplied mediasource software very easy .
if you have always on internet or are logged into the internet you can use the feature that will download the album & song id information ( this is a free service ) with the click of a button .
ripping your songs and creating playlists could n't be any easier .
i found using mediasource to load your songs to the nomad jukebox to be much easier and faster than using windows explorer .
just highlight the songs you want to transfer from your playlist or music library then click one button and it 's done !
being a creative product the playback quality is unbeatable .
i use my own mid-priced headphones rather than the enclosed earbuds .
when i played back a symphony orchestra you would swear that you were seated dead center in front of the orchestra - it 's that good !
the sound quality with jazz and pop music is equally superior .
actually using the nomad jukebox is easy and uncomplicated .
finding a particular song ( s ) or album on the nomad jukebox is fast and easy .
i like to play my music by album and the nomad jukebox plays the songs in the same order as the actual cd .
the high resolution screen is easy to read and has a backlight .
i can highly recommend this product because of its ease of use ( hardware and software ) , playback quality and value for the price .
just bought one & i 've enjoyed it to date .
nice palm sized unit , somewhat bigger then the ipod but not an issue if you 're not going to try & jog with it or something .
all reviews i 've seen seem to indicate that the creative mp3 jukeboxes have the best sound quality of these 2nd generation jukeboxed ( ipod , archos , dell , samsung ) .
the eax settings are somewhat superfluous but not really a negative .
i 've tried the belkin fm transmitter unit with it & it worked well when i set it on top of a portable radio , but was awful trying to use in the car which is somewhat of a disappointment .
dislikes
- the controls are much inferior to the simple ipod ones .
the black fly wheel feels pretty cheap & is uncomfortable to use .
the locations of various buttons on one side or the other is somewhat illogical
- included creative software is pretty poor .
red chair 's notmad explorer is great & recommended by about every reviewer to repleace the creative jukebox software .
note : this will add about $ 30 to the price to purchase , but worth it
likes
- great value 40gb vs 10 gb ipod for the price
- best in class sound
- large easy readable screen
after receiving the box from amazon , i proceeded with charging the unit for the specified 4 hours , after which i installed the software and connected the unit to my pc via usb 2.0 .
the pc quickly picked up on it and attempted to install the software , which failed , as creative chose not to follow microsoft standards , whatever .
i then installed the software manually instead , after having to click past about 5 windows of " please register with us so we can spam your inbox " .
at this time , i decided to turn the player on , and much to my surprise it comes with quite the little library of classical music , one of which is a childhood favorite , bach 's air .
i tried to play the song three times , with no success .
it would either not play the song at all , or skip wildly , no matter that the unit was resting on my desk .
well , maybe that particular song was just corrupt , so i tried to upload some of my own , after four attempts , at each one the unit locked up and required a reboot , i managed to upload an album , which albeit was surprisingly fast , however when attempting to create a playlist out of my newly uploaded songs , the nomad again froze up and refused to work .
i made an additional five attempts at creating a playlist , before packing the unit up and heading over to amazon 's product return page .
needless to say , i would n't recommend anyone purchasing this product .
had there been strange noises , or obvious defects , i would have accepted a replacement , but this is clearly from a defective and inferior operating system and i for one do not intend on waiting for patches .
charged my battery .
plugged it in .
installed software .
started ripping and transferring .
if you arent hooked up to cddb to get the album info i guess you have to manually input the stuff , but that little work will save you looking for songs .
i 've got 1200 songs on it now and about 4000 more to go .
working for 10 hours with it on " shuffle " totally rocks ! !
i love it ! !
i bought this only to have it break within a month .
this product is too fragile for normal use .
i received this as a gift .
i had no problems setting up the software and getting my favorite cd 's transferred .
however , the creative software is not real intuitive .
the software is somewhat nice to look at , using it is not the easiest .
if you want to rename a cd title that you have already transferred , you will become frustrated quite quickly .
you are better off deleting it , re-ripping it with the new title and then transferring it to the player .
transfers are surprisingly quick through usb 2.0 .
it is great sounding , even with the supplied earbuds .
i must have differing preferences than others here , as i prefer the supplied earbuds to the sony 's that i thought sounded good on other players .
i love the storage in this thing .
i have 100 of my cd 's transferred and have n't made a dent in the 30 gb drive .
i doubt i will use half of the storage capacity , but you never know .
this is definitely opening up possibilities to obtaining mp3 's in which i would have never purchased the cd .
now my dissapointments .
the description of the warranty is buried on the supplied set up cd .
the warranty is 90 days .
this is ridiculous .
to me this alludes to the manufacturer 's confidence that the product will last for a year .
buy the re-seller 's extended warranty and save yourself a headache for the problems you will have later , after all it is a hard drive and it will die or have issues over time ( probably sooner than later ) .
the scroll wheel , to be blunt , sucks .
seems it is always difficult to press to make a selection .
the interface used could be better designed .
it is a little cumbersome to scroll through so many levels to get to the selection you want .
i am a software engineer and if i wrote an interface to my software that worked like this , there would be hell to pay , not to mention the ridicule from my peers .
and the case , how did this ever make it out of quality control .
it is some protection for the unit , but for useability , forget it .
the screen is covered , so to make any new selections you have to open it .
the cut-outs for the controls is not thought out as there is too much material in the way to adequately access the controls , especially the scroll wheel .
there are no other aftermarket cases available for this model yet , so you have to live with it .
despite the things that i have listed so far , i could live with this item since it saves me from lugging a cd case to work , to the gym , in the car , etc. .
however the main reason i am not satisfied with this product is the fact that it will lock up at odd times .
i have had it lock up after a transfer of music .
the files are there , but i could not access the player without removing the battery , waiting a short period and re-inserting the battery .
also have had it lock up when i shut it down to attend to a phone call .
left it set on my desk came back five minutes later and it just wanted to keep playing the same song over and over .
could not stop it , could not get out of the " now playing " screen .
again had to remove the battery .
there have been other occurrences of locking , but i will not bore you with the details .
quite simply , the firmware and / or the os that control this thing is not ready for prime time .
there have also been times that the unit has been turned off for some period of time , upon powering it up it starts on the " now playing " screen with a song or cd that i had been playing days before .
i have n't quite figured this one out yet , but it is probably operator error .
now i have not owned other mp3 players as i was waiting until they matured , but since i received it as a gift i now have this one .
i would suspect that there are similar problems with all of the other brands as this is somewhat new technology .
and we all know about the rush to market on new products .
i have had this player for 2 weeks , i will be returning it for an exchange in the hopes that the locking problem and scroll wheel are problems with this particular unit .
while i am at the store i will definitely get the extended warranty as i have another day or so ( from the purchase date ) to obtain one .
i know this unit will have problems in the future and the $ 40 for the 2 year " no questions asked " replacement warranty will be worth it , since creative will only warrant it for 90 days - which in itself is totally ridiculous !
this is my second creative labs mp3 player , and it is definitely a fine product .
first let me give you the bad things :
1 . the size is a little bit bigger than the ipod , and it weighs a little bit more .
2 . the scroll button is n't the best , as it sometimes can be hard to select .
3 . that 's pretty much all the negatives the positive things truly outnumber the negatives , and the negatives are n't that bad .
first of all the player 's sound quality is superior to the ipod .
the player 's software is very easy to use and very good .
compared to musicmatch , the software has a better filing system and easier to use .
to keep it short , this is cheaper , and in my opinion a better choice than an ipod .
if you purchase this product , definitely rip your songs through windows media player .
otherwise , you 'll have to mess around a lot with filenames inside the ( decent ) nomad explorer , which is not fun at all .
this thing seriously is a good player though .
summary
overall i like the unit .
i gave it only 3 stars due to the fact that the 1st one broke when i dropped it from a fairly short distance ( less than 2 ft ) .
if it were not for that i would have given it 4 .
pros :
1 ) price / gb of storage
2 ) storage capacity
3 ) user replaceable battery
cons :
1 ) fragile ( i broke the 1st one within 10 days )
2 ) scroll button / switch
3 ) the case hides the display - you have to open it to see what you are doing .
features that would have been nice :
1 ) fm receiver - some models out there have this .
2 ) fm transmitter - so you can place the unit in your car and listen to the unit through your car stereo .
they sell an adapter unit to use with your car 's cassette deck .
but who wants the wires involved .
a short range fm transmitter would be much nicer .
i believe the napster mp3 player has this feature .
details :
do n't drop this unit :
i 've had the player for about a month now .
overall i like it .
as mentioned above i broke the player within the 1st 10 days .
i was sitting on a train and it fell off my lap and broke .
i think it fell right on the earphone plug when it fell ( murphy strikes again ) .
i was able to return it to the retailer where i bought it and got a replacement .
if you are going to need a player that is rugged this may not be the one for you .
i purchased the extended warranty ( something i almost never do ) when i returned the unit to get the replacement .
updating the unit 's firmware :
when i first purchased the unit i downloaded the firmware update that was available on their website .
the upgrade went smoothly and was easy to do if you can follow directions .
i would recommend doing the upgrade to be sure you have the best chance at trouble free operation .
storage :
the storage capacity is great .
i do n't think i will ever use the full 30gb .
i currently have ~ 1100 songs encoded mostly at 196 kpbs and i have n't even used 10gb of storage yet .
i 'm starting to listen to cd 's that i have n't listened to in years now that i have them all handy in one place .
for those out there that are not familiar with mp3 encoding , you can encode your cd 's at varying quality levels .
typically people use 96kbs to 320 kps.
the higher the number the better the quality ( less data compression is used ) and the larger the file size .
if you decide to encode at 320 you will fit less on this device than someone who encodes at 128kps .
you should consider this when deciding what bit rate you want to use and how much you want to put on the player .
if you 're someone who wants to put 10,000 songs on this thing you may want to encode at the lower end ( typically 128 is considered close to cd quality ).
price :
the price compared to the ipod is great .
price , along with the replaceable battery ( which i understand apple charges a small fortune to replace - as well as the hassle of returning it ) were the two main factors on why i picked the nomad .
one word of caution with regards to using the nomad with itunes .
i discovered this weekend that itunes does not sell mp3 's in the mp3 format .
it using something called ac3 ( at least the trial song i purchased was in this format ) which is not a compatible format for the nomad .
i have n't figured out if this is the case for all the songs on itunes .
but for now it appears that this player does n't play well with itunes .
scroll bar :
the scroll bar is a bit of a pain .
sometimes you skip past things or have to press it twice to select items .
it 's not the end of the world , but a better design sure would be nice .
software :
i 've had no problems with the software .
i found it intuitive to use ( i did n't read any documentation for it and was using it successfully within a few minutes ) .
the software will convert your cd 's to mp3 and put them on the player as well as your hard disk if you want it to .
my 2.6 mhz pentium 4 with usb 2.0 was able to perform the task pretty quickly ( i would estimate ~ 5 - 8 minutes per cd ).
through the software you can classify songs in genres .
this is a nice feature ( i.e. it 's early in the morning and you rather listen to " easy listening " rather than " heavy metal " - no problem .
the software comes with plenty of defaults genres .
you can also create your own if you do n't like their classifications .
you can edit the genres once the songs are on the play if you decide to re-classify things later .
this can be done on a song by song basis or in mass .
in addition , you can create play lists where you can create the equivalent to a compilation cd right on your player .
this is pretty cool .
sound :
the sound from the player is ok .
i was a little disappointed in the low end .
i did buy separate headphones as other have recommended .
i was able to improve things a bit by using the units equalizer and boosting the base .
the sound level is also not as high as i would have expected .
it 's probably good for the health of your ears , however i consistently play it near the high end of the volume range ( and my hearing is fine ).
wow , dennis sure is great !
slowly yet surely my unit engorged as i read my own review , similar to when i look in the mirror .
this thing is great , i like to use it to pick up tough stains on my countertop and also to listen to my old 8-track records .
sometimes when i get really lonely , i like to put on some kenny g and light some candles , and while this does n't help , i am a capitalist pig and like buying things too , nah mean ! ?
i did have some problems figuring out how to turn the unit on , but creative did a good job with this , as they had a clearly labled " on " button that i found when i left my cellar for the first time in years .
there was very little light in there .
anyway , im gon na go find dennis now , have a nice day ! ! !
i got my zen xtra a little bit more then a week ago .
it was not my first choice .
i have done a lot of research before i decided to buy the nomad zen xtra .
one good thing , it is 40 gb of disk space ( well , it is 38 gb in reality ) .
for the price and features it is really good .
one thing , before buying this player i have called the creative tech. support and asked them if i can navigate by folders beside artist / album and answer was yes .
sure enough there is no such ability .
not sure , if customer rep. did not know the product exactly , it is still new or they just give an anser which users would like to hear .
in any case , navigation by artist / album is ok however i miss an ability to navigate by folders .
you even can not navigate by genre / artist / album since under genre you get just all tracks in that genre , no other division .
creative is talking about updating it via firmware , however after following some while the descussion groups for nomad players , looks like creative represents mostly bug fixes in their firmware updates , not too much of new features .
the software , which comes with player is not good at all .
i did not managed to make creative nomad explorer to work .
after installing it and trying to make it working for 30 minutes i went and bought notmad .
notmad worked right away after install and it is what i would like to see from the product .
transfer files is easy using notmad , however again , would be great if nomad supported folders like iriver , rca lyra and some other .
often i fill i need to have better organization for the library and there is not enought of variables .
artist , album and genre are only mp3 tags which are supported buy this player , and if you have 100 artists would be good to have another subcategory .
after all those players have 40-60 gb of hard drive , so better organization is required .
the bottom line , i 'll still watch the progress of iriver hdd players and if they produce 40 gb player i 'll will sell my nomad and buy iriver .
i downloaded the trial version , and after less than 10 minutes of using it , decided it was well worth the price .
so yes , as with all software bundled with creative products , it was useless and ugly .
for once , though , this 3rd party software is excellent .
dont let the bad reviews of the software change your mind .
zens rule .
originally i wanted the ipod .
most people probably wanted the ipod before realizing that a vast array of full-featured viable alternatives exist .
i like the way apple is innovative , but let 's face it - they can 't be the only one with an idea to enclose a 2.5 " hd within an aluminum case in a stylish package for long , especially after the buzz is out of their little techie pod .
the 30gb zen xtra rocks my socks , spills my beer , but does n't wash my car .
so what ?
i can do that myself .
longer battery life , greater accessibility to online music services , and pc compatibility are the sensibilities .
the visceral teases include the case , the sound quality , and the capacity .
i have n't checked the resilience of my xtra yet , and do n't plan to .
however , if anyone has participated in violent or extreme sports while using their zen , please share your experiences .
i 'm considering using mine as a distraction to winter boredom in the paintball fields .
it can get pretty lonely out there .
i just purchased this player and i have to say that i love it .
the sound is excellent , the battery life is excellent , the fact that the battery is replacable is excellent , and finally the price , $ 200 cheaper than the 40gb ipod , is excellent .
the only thing the ipod has over the nomad is the style , size , and ease of use .
the nomad is not ugly , it is not that big , it comfortably fits in my pocket , or heavy , and the controls are not hard to get used to .
so far i have no complaints and i recommend this to anyone who wants quality over appearance , also anyone who wants a harddrive based mp3 player and wants to pay next to nothing .
i only have one question , when i add tracks to my nomad , via nomad explorer , they are automatically put in alphebetical order , rather than album order .
is this possible to fix , if so how , if not does notmad explorer from red chair software do this ?
i would like album order for my live albums and was just wondering .
thank you very much , and go out and get yourself a nomad !
wow .. .
this thing is trash .
want the laundry list of reasons why ?
of course you do !
a ) feel cheap -- the plastic is feels like it would break very easily , and it definately wouldnt survive a drop
b ) the screen is hard to read -- the cover hides it an already annoying poorly lit display
c ) the scroll bar is a travesty -- enough said
d ) software is another great misfortune -- hard to operate , crashes frequently , screwed my music library up , doesnt work with mp4s , the list goes on and on
e ) the case is too small -- it took me like a half hour just to get this monstrosity to fit in its cage
f ) it doesnt look pretty -- spending this kind of cash , you want something that has the asthetics bit down , of course
so .. .
im taking mine back tomorrow morning , and getting a nice shiny new ipod instead .
do n't waste your time , engery , resources on this thing , just spend a little more for a far more functional ipod .
i bought the zen xtra 30g as a gift .
what a disappointment .
the software failed repeatedly .
i could n't load more than one song before the software crashed .
creative labs customer support website is useless .
software downloads on the site crashed my pc .
creative tech support operators work 9-6 p.m. weekdays - as if i had time during work hours to spend time on this .
do n't buy this thing .
i just bought this player today and i already love it .
it has a few inconveniences : one is that the songs do not automatically play one after another like on a cd .
another irriation is that if you hold the scroll button down for too long , it keeps going past the song you may have wanted to stop on .
otherwise , this player is awesome !
it has a clear blue light that allows you to see everything on the screen easily .
the volume range is great , so you can blast it if you want .
overall , this player is awesome and i definately recommend it .
i received this item for christmas and it has met and exceeded all my standards .
naturally i did quite a bit of review before purchasing ( i recomend www.nomadness.net ) , and price-wise zens are unbeatable .
compared to other leading hdd mp3 players , the value per gb is the tops .
- price : see above .
- sound quality : excellent , everything you would expect from this company .
- the unit is easy to use and intuitive .
it took me about 5 minutes before i had mastered the controls .
- uploading music is quick and easy .
although the supplied software can be annoying at times , on whole it is excellent .
i have uploaded about 3,000 songs now with very minimal difficulty . ( it 's fast too ! )
btw , be sure to have your mp3 tags labled correctly , as this will ensure a great organization .
- the unit itself its well structured , with just the buttons you need and none you do n't .
as often mentioned , the scroll tab is average , however , not difficult to use or horrible .
structurally , everything is secure and it wo n't fall apart on you .
the screen is large , defined , and easy to read , and the silver unit is naturally cool .
there are lots of interesting features included such as eax , and customization .
- the replacable battery is great since once it eventually wears out ( as all lithium batteries do ) , you will be able to buy another easily .
ipod users have to send theirs back and pay $ 100 for a replacement .
also , the nomad 's 14 hours of battery life versus 8 is handy .
- equipment included is average , but that is n't a big deal since thats not what you are buying it for .
the case is strong and stylish , but unfortunately lacks a window ( now a big deal ) .
the headphone earbuds are average , so just use your regular pair instead .
conclusion :
this player is an ideal purchase .
there is n't need to get in details again , but just remember it rocks because : price , sound , ease of use , and features .
i would recogmend this player to anyone i know , and you will not be dissapointed .
the nomad jukebox zen xtra is a very good mp3 player but the software is it gets hurt .
i have no problem using the player itself and i feel it is a very good player .
on my main computer the software did not work right .
i had to sit on the phone with customer support for 2 hours and they did not help at all .
i eventually gave up with customer support and worked on fixing the problem myself .
i have the software working fine now and the mp3 player is fantastic .
it seems that depending on the system the software might not work or might work , because it works on all the other computers i have .
so once i worked out the problem with the software this mp3 player is worth the money it cost .
i 'm very pleased with my zx so here 's a quick review .
first there 's the unit itself .
it is small overall , bigger than the ipod , but keep in mind that this is because different , less expensive but not necessarily inferior technology is used in the zx .
the zx boasts superior sound quality than the ipod , however it compromises a bit of the unit 's size in doing so .
the lcd is larger than the previous model , the nx , and has a bright blue backlight which illuminates the screen more successfully than the nx 's green backlight did .
the scroll wheel is easy to use and works great for me , however many have complained that the wheel is cumbersome and difficult to operate .
the sound is excellent as one would suspect from a creative product .
the included eax support is useful at times , especially when you listen to a variety of genres , as it will adjust the equalizer for you which can be a big hassle .
the environmental audio , however , is almost completely useless and has made most of my songs sound worse than without it ( i encode my songs at 192-256 kbps without variable bit rates . )
the signal to noise ratio ( the ratio of detectable , useful data to unusable garbage in , say , a radio wave ; a larger stn ratio is better ) is nice and high at 98 decibles , and it should be noted that apple refuses to release the stn ratio of any of the ipods .
the software has n't been a hassle for me at all .
i ignored the instruction booklet ( as i do with any product ) and figured out how to organize separate playlists within minutes .
my sister was able to figure it out on her own as well , and she is of average computer competence .
the less computer-saavy might find apple 's software a bit friendlier , though ( i use it at a friend 's house and it does do a lot more for you . )
lastly , the price is fantastic :
i spent $ 269 for my 30gb zx , compared to the $ 299 for a 10gb ipod and the also expensive iriver ihp-120 .
for prospective buyers , i would warn of the following : 1 ) purchase a better pair of headphones as soon as possible , as earbuds sound terrible and are terribly uncomfortable ( this applies to earbuds in general , ) and 2 ) make sure that your mp3s have id3 tags on them , that when when they are loaded into the playlist they will automatically sort themselves .
if you want great sound quality , do n't want to spend an arm and a leg per-gigabyte , do n't mind being something of an iconoclast among many ipod users , and are willing to sacrifice a few cubic centimeters of your personal space for a large discount , then i would suggest the zen xtra for you .
read the instuctions - do not plug the zen into your computer until you have installed all the software onto your computer and rebooted it ! !
( i had no problems since i did this but there seem to be a couple of very bitter reviews further down - maybe they did not do this or maybe there are some very sad ipod owners since they all recomend it instead ) .
and have you seen the price of the ipod extras that you need .
eg 60 $ for a plastic box to hold 4 aaa batteries to increase the use time past 6-8 hrs ( reviewers figures )
i uploaded the drivers and new software in 15 minutes - no crashes or problems .
transferred the zens new software onto it in about 10 seconds .
it is transferes a song in about 2 seconds .
usb 2.0 - very fast
yeah i agree the earbuds are pretty crap , replace them .
but the sound is very good ( and loud ) and works well on my portable speakers .
and for those that are intrested the recharger works anywhere in the world ( and is quite small ).
it looks very cool , and seems quite small to me and very light .
the scroll button seems ok , i have no problems with it .
i am very pleased so far .
i had all my files already on my pc in wma format ( 200 cd 's ).
so far so good , no problems , no conversions .
very simple to use .
the reason it does not get 5 stars
1 ) a spare battery would have been great .
2 ) no games - it has a cool screen - why not use it .
3 ) it does not work automatically like a hard drive when you connect it to your computer , like some players
all in all suprisingly easy to use .
summary :
lots of flaws , but exceptional sound quality , hd size , and price make it a good buy .
pros :
excellent sound - i found the music reproduced faithfully through the jukebox .
there was no distortion and it sounded great , especially with eax environmental audio enabled .
transfer through windows explorer - windows recognizes the jukebox as an additional hard disk , so it allows you to simply drag and drop files from windows explorer to a folder for the nomad .
i found this to be a much easier method of transferring my music to the nomad than using their software .
however , it does n't register instantly as a hard drive like other players .
you have to install the software to the computer you 're transferring to , instead of just connecting it with a usb connection .
this would have been much easier .
the nomad can hold any type of file , not just mp3 , so you can use it as a portable hard disk .
i found it very useful for transferring large files to another computer .
this almost made it worth the price alone .
i was able to easily copy 2gb worth of video files from my computer , and then transfer them to a friend 's .
huge storage space - even at 320kbs , you can store a ton of songs on this thing .
30gb is more than enough for most people .
having usb 2.0 makes for very fast transfers .
it only took me about 10 seconds to transfer a 200mb file .
it took maybe 15 minutes to transfer 1000 songs .
cons :
navigation system - the zen xtra uses id3 tags that are embedded in the mp3 files to organize your songs .
this is great as long as all of your music have id3 tags , and if you 've downloaded your songs off the internet , many probably do n't .
it would have been much easier to use a windows explorer style navigation system .
you can 't simply open up a folder from the player and play all the songs in it .
whe you transfer your songs to the jukebox , it dumps all of them into a single folder , and then sorts them by the id3 tags.
fm receiver - it has none .
i would be nice to have a simple fm receiver so i could pick up local stations .
that way i could get rid of a walkman alltogether .
cheap construction - they should have made the player out of hard plastic and put some rubber on the corners .
the player feels very delicate , as if i 'm holding an actual hard drive .
i 'm not sure if it would survive a fall from 3 feet .
as a portable player , it should feel a bit more durable .
the top of the player is a thin metal piece that covers up the battery and is removable .
i could crush this thing in half with two fingers if i wanted to .
this is not a player you can take jogging .
the songs do n't play one after another like on a cd .
you have to add them to the playing list .
i can 't simply bring up my entire list of songs , click play , and then hit next .
you have to add all the songs to a play list .
there is probably an easier way to do this , i just have n't found it yet .
software - the software is crap .
i use it for ripping cds , which it does a pretty good job of .
otherwise , it is difficult to figure out and awkward .
like most people , i do n't want to read the instructions , i just want to use it .
even after reading some of the instructions , it 's still hard to figure out .
i would recommend replacing the existing software with the " notmad explorer , " which is simpler to use and can be found on the internet .
no line out jack - as i said , there is none .
the headphone jack acts as a pseudo line out jack .
so you can plug your nomad directly into your stereo or use a car adapter , but you do n't get the quality from a true line out jack .
it sounds decent , but i would estimate you get maybe 80 % of the quality that you would from a true line out jack .
controls are a bit awkward .
the controls definately took some getting used to .
it was n't as easy to fast forward or pause a song than it was with a regular walkman .
when i first had it i kept finding myself having to look at the nomad to figure out where the skip button was .
a sliding old fashioned volume knob would also have been easier than the digital version that was included .
i want to have instant access to the volume , not have to hold down a button and have to wait a half second for the player to register it .
crappy headphones .
the included earbuds were uncomfortable .
i would replace them with some better sounding and more comfortable phones .
difficult navigation - i wo n't necessarily say " difficult , " but i do n't enjoy the scrollwheel to navigate .
it is a bit cumbersome , and i can 't get to the songs i want as quickly .
i think this is it 's biggest flaw .
i would much more have preferred a keypad-type navigator like found on dvd remotes .
up , down , left , and right would have given me better control .
if you hold down the scroll wheel too long ( which is common if you have a lot of songs to sort through ) , it will get " stuck " rapidly going through the songs and wo n't stop until several seconds after you let your finger off of it .
case - the nomad comes with a leather holding case .
it would have been much nicer if it had a window so you could see the screen , and if the button did n't cover up the ac jack .
that way i could keep it in the case all the time .
as it stands now , the case is pretty useless unless you 're packing the player up for travel , or if you load up all your songs beforehand .
you can cut up the case a bit with an xacto knife and make it useable though .
overall , i feel that it 's a decent buy , and am happy that i own it .
i am willing to overlook it 's problems to get superior sound quality and low price , although i feel the player has a lot of room for improvement .
after looking over multiple large mp3 players , i decided to get this one .
for the price and size and features , you can 't beat the price .
a 10 gb ipod is just as much and i have heard from multiple sources that the ipod is very loud and you can heard the hard drive everytime it spins , accesses files or does antyhing .
i think the reson for the creative being larger is for sound dampening and protection , whihc is a plus , but then again it is only speculation .
the buttons and interface are very easy to use .
simple click buttons , back buttons volume and display are very easy to read , access and use .
but the major problem i had was with the software .
you are not able to simply import files , but rather you have to go through multiple steps to find them .
the instructions that come with it do n't explain how to make things simple .
the quick sync is n't any good becuase it either needs to be configured properly or just is n't very useful .
i tried to make sense of the file transfer program and just got more confused .
i tried to take a cd and simply rip it onto a hard drive and then transfer into the player .
well that was not a simple task .
i ended up suing windows player to make mp3 's ( actually wma files ) and then using the probram to transfer .
i think the lack of the mp3 player being able to run without special software is also a downer , becuase it makes it more cumbersome for people less computer illiterate .
buy this for the storage and price , avoid it if you know nothing about computers .
with this mp3 player you get much more memory for much less than an ipod .
an ipod with the same amount of memory is $ 150 cheaper .
the reason for this the ipod has " a better user interface " .
i have found that the interface on the nomad is very easy to use if you have a basic knowledge of a computer .
also the ipod has games on it .
games are ok for a cell phone , but mp3 's are for music .
i purchased this player last week .
i did a little research on the web and this is the player i decided on .
i refuse to buy anything made by apple and the nomad is about $ 200 cheaper anyway .
i have had no problem what-so-ever with this product .
the software installed flawlessly and without any problems on my windows 2k machine .
the headphones are n't the best , but you can really expect much out of the small headphones you insert in the ear cavity .
the battery life seems good , takes very lttle time to charge , it uploads mp3s quickly and there is no delay between songs .
took me a few tries to get use to the navigation , but it 's a very user friendly player imo .
i have n't messed with the firmware at all , the player worked perfect for me right out of the box .
all-in-all , this is another excellent creative product .
if you have the money and need 40 gb , this is the player for you .
it 's small , light and nice looking and the display is decent as well .
i would recommend this product to anyone .
before asking for the zen xtra specifically for christmas i researched many different mp3 players but finally decided on this one , and now that i have it i could n't be happier and i 'm convinced it 's the best one out there .
many people have written about the software being its one downfall , personally i have n't had a single problem with the software , i 'm running windows me .
the cd ripping to mp3 is so easy , and you can even rip the cd directly to the mp3 player , so it wo n't take up space on your pc hard drive .
the software runs smooth , it 's nice to look at , it 's very organized , easy to follow and makes things very simple .
the controls on the player are very simple , no need for a manual .
the player is fast and sounds great , it also has many options like slowing or speeding up the music , or making it sound like you 're hearing the music in a huge auditorium .
the battery lasts very long when playing music , but writing files to the player drains the battery fast , so you need to have it plugged into an outlet when sending files .
playlists can be made on the fly , without aid of a computer , and you can use play modes like shuffle and repeat for your ' now playing ' selections or playlists .
the software could n't be better and the mp3 player works like a dream , i could n't give this anything but a 5 , i wish there was a 6 .
i purchased and returned this product , but not because of any glaring flaws in the design .
it is an extremely cool gizmo .
in fact , everyone who saw it thought i was " the man " and wo n't believe i returned it .
so what 's the problem ?
i made the mistake of thinking i could easily manage my mp3 library with this device .
i initially loaded about 3700 tracks with the intent of ripping the majority of my remaining cds to mp3 .
i quickly discovered that the nomad was n't going to work for me .
the reasons below will be true for any product in this category .
here 's why :
1 . i do n't need the nomad at the office .
i have my mp3 's stored on my workstation .
2 . i do n't need the nomad at home for the same reason ( although using it to sync between the two pc 's might be a reason enough to get it . )
3 . it 's a hazard in the car .
the navigation is nice enough , but scrolling and searching through thousands of tracks , hundreds of albums or artists , or even dozens of genres is not conducive to save driving .
( throw a cell phone and you 're asking for trouble . ) 3a .
creating playlists using the included software to minimize issue 3 was n't as easy as i would have liked .
the bottom line :
if i have to get into making playlists to avoid rear-end collisions , i 'll just buy a regular portable cd/mp3 player and burn myself collections of about 120 tracks per disk .
sure it 's " old school " to carry a cd wallet around , but it will be easier to manage and i 'll save around 250 bucks .
one major complaint :
my only significant complaint is sound quality .
the eax sound enhancement feature did n't do enough for me and the custom eq was a limited 5 band eq .
this did not give me enough control .
i wanted to use the nomad with a cassette style car adapter .
i was unable achieve a sound quality on par with my simple portable cd player with " bass boost . "
the sound quality of my cd player is superior in this setting to the nomad .
one minor complaint :
the documentation says to extend battery life , do not fill player to capacity .
gee ... thanks a lot creative .
well in the beginning i was asking around for mp3 players .
so then i came across the ipod ( 10 gb ) .
so i was all excited about the ipod but then the day before i went to best buy to check out the other mp3 players and i came across this one .
well i decided to get this one .
well i have to say that this product is very good i mean it might be a little big but it still fits in your pocket .
well surely this is a product that i recommend someone in getting rather than any other mp3 player ( at that size and the price ) .
well just one con - its not really plug and play at first i mean its very confusing to start the program but one you do it , it will be a breeze .
enjoy .
i was going to get a 10gb ipod , but after looking at the 10 day warranty for ipod and www.ipodsdirtysecret.com ( battery lasts 18 months ;
it costs like 200 dollars to replace - now you mail it off to get the battery replaced for like 99 .. .
what a big improvement ... lol ) and the fact that lots of people have had problems with ipods on windows computers , i realized this is a much better buy .
not only is it more affordable , but its a better player for windows , which is what i have .
anyway , on with the review .
so far i 've only had it since christmas , so i cant tell you much about the battery life .
it hasnt gone below the second notch ( i charge mine whenever i 'm at home and not using it ) , so the battery life seems fine ( so far ).
software : for the people who complain about software , please , stop complaining .
once you hook the thing up to the computer ( via the usb cable ) , the machine instantly recognizes the fact that it 's there & installs the drivers .
from there , you transfer files from your computer to the mp3 player ( with the help of the media sniffer .. . read the manual ).
my only complaint would be that you need id3 tags & that takes a while to do if your mp3 files do n't have them .
if you 're copying cds with windows media , its really simple to give your songs id3 tags , so thats what i do .
oh ... and file transfers are fast & easy .
the player : it 's silver .
a little weighty ( 9 ounces ... no biggie ) , but otherwise fine .
people complain about the scroll wheel , but its not a big deal at all ( though it is just a little annoying at times ) .
it 's easy .
the buttons are easy to use , and its easy to navigate .
the big backlight makes things easy to see , and the writing is big enough for people to see .
my favorite thing about the nomad is the eax feature .
you can customize bass , etc. like usual , but also you can customize the sound of the player ( like how it would sound in a concert hall , jazz club , etc ).
its really cool .
sound quality is amazing. i was expecting worse , but its really good ( especially if your files have good sound quality ) .
you can also slow a song down & speed it up , which is cool too .
but the earbuds suck !
buy new ones asap. every time you move your face or something they pop out .
for a 250 dollar player , they could have thrown in nice headphones .
a remote would have been cool too ... but lets not push it .
oh ... one more thing .
i forgot , the case does n't fit .
my case doesnt close ... maybe mine was just faulty , but the case isnt that great .
so far the player froze on me once ( i started pushing buttons before it loaded ) but since is hard drive based - you have to expect that .
so all you do is stick a pin or something small in the reset button & you 're golden .
also , you can store data on it , which is a plus. for all you people who want to buy an ipod just to say you have an ipod , do n't bother , this is a much better buy .
hope i helped !
i 'd like to start off saying that before this product i was using an archos jukebox recorder .. .
what made this product so great to me was the open source os called rockbox .. .
based on hardware one could assume the archos players were horrible ( which by hardware standards .. . they were ) .. .
but because a few fine men and women took the time to create the upstanding rockbox software , the archos became a top notch player for me with intuitive features out the wazoo .. .
now we come to the zen xtra .. .
first i 'll start off by saying that this players hardware is pretty good .. .
the sound is indeed excellent and the form factore is not bad ( but still rather larger than i had expected ) .. .
what really made this a mediocre mp3 player for me was the software .
not just the transfer software ( which was a hellishly horrible experience ) but also the player 's software .
first of all , many actions that the player utilizes do n't make sense . .
bookmarks for example , are an excellent feature ... but not on this player .. .
rather than creating a directory for bookmarks to be found in one area , the user must actually find the track where the bookmark was made . .
this makes no sense and sort of defeats the purpose of audio bookmarks .. .
the dynamic playlists ( " now playing " , i belive creative calls it ) feels very awkward at times and some menus simply take to long to get to and operate .. .
well , anyway i could go on and on on why this player did n't meet my expectations .. .
i 'll just say this .. .
for the average music listener not expecting much ... this may be a satisfactory mp3 player ...
but for someone who cares about thier music collection and wants fluid and responsive playback .. . i can 't recommend this product .
i became interested in getting a mp3 player when i got a new work computer ; while my office bars the addition of any non-work software , it does n't care if you load cds onto the hard drive .
over time , i loaded hundreds of cds onto the computer , and the idea of carrying around all of my music with me became attractive .
many people recommended the ipod , and i borrowed one from a friend .
while the ease of use was very impressive , i was put off by the price -- about $ 130 more than what i paid amazon for this player .
also , there is the need to send the ipod to replace the batteries when they die ( which they will ).
i have had the nomad jukebox for about three weeks now , and i am very happy with it .
it 's only slightly heavier than the ipod , and has a longer battery life .
the storage capacity is great for me --
i have a large but not huge cd collection and have loaded everything i want to listen to on it and still have 13 gigabytes free .
the controls are somewhat harder to use than the ipod , but i have gotten use to them , and even at the beginning did not think would justify the huge difference in price .
loading cds was somewhat time-consuming , but i think it would have been with the ipod as well .
i had never loaded my cds on to my home computer , using my work computer instead .
my office would not let me put the software on to my work computer .
this meant that i had to take all my cds and do in a fairly short period of time what i had done over a year at work .
if the music had been on my home computer , the transfer would have been accomplished very quickly .
i have an older computer , running windows 98 se , and so those of you with something more recent would find the process even quicker .
my only reservations about this product concern the tagging process and the way it interacts with the software .
when you load a disc , you go to an internet cite for the insertion of the names for the cd and the tracks .
while the listing process is accurate for track names ( unlike windows ' reliance on the amg , which frequently gets track listings out of order ) , the results can be odd .
the cd will be classified into a number of genres , and in multidisk sets , you can get separate classifications for different disks by the same artist and the same performance .
for example , jimi hendrix 's 2 cd live at the fillmore east had one cd classifed as classic rock and the other psychidelic rock .
perhaps the weirdest was one of bruce springsteen 's cds from the tracks set being classified as goth rock .
you can change any of these , but need to be paying attention when the information is downloaded before you copy it .
a somewhat more troublesome problem is that the internet site will sometimes give different discs of the same set slightly different names .
this will cause the discs not to show up together when you are looking for them on the nomad .
again , you can change this , but it 's harder to spot a minor variation in the title when you do n't have the title of the other disk in front of you .
other tagging problems result ( i think ) from the nomad 's operating system .
if you have two tracks with exactly the same name on one disk , it will not copy both -- it gives you the option of skipping the second or overwriting the first with the second .
this is rarely a problem with any kind of popular music , but can be troublesome with classical music where tracks are identified by tempi .
i also had it happen when recording a jazz set where there were a number of outtakes of the same song without numbering them separately .
the way to fix this is to rename the track by adding a number yourself to the end of the track listing .
also , i can 't understand why the software does not ignore " the " when it lists the cds in alphabetical order .
finally , making playlists from the computer can be complicated because the tracks are listed individually , and are organized by cd , which are not listed but are organized in alphabetical order .
in other words , to locate a track using the software on the computer and add it to a playlist , you must know the name of the cd it appears on and then find the track by locating the location of the unlisted cd by looking for tracks that appear on it .
you do n't have this problem if you make your playlist from the nomad , where cds are listed separately .
you need your computer , however , if you want to add tracks to a playlist .
these are minor problems , and i list them to save anyone else the trouble of discovering them .
had i not been in such a hurry to load cds , i would have spotted them sooner .
also , if i had already loaded and tagged by cds on my home computer , this would not have been an issue .
the bottom line for me is that i am very happy with this product .
apple 's ipod is dominant now , but i have to wonder whether the price differential will mean that in 3 or 4 years its market share will drop significantly .
simply not as friendly for functional as an ipod .
even better , ipod integrates perfectly with itunes so that managing music is a snap .
i just got a 40gb ipod to replace my zen ( a 20gb model ) .
while the ipod 's form factor is much nicer , here 's where the zen is better .
software :
a lot of people complain about the creative software , but i actually find creative mediasource organizer to have some strengths over itunes .
first , the zen lets you sync to more than one computer .
the ipod is a one way only machine - from computer to player .
the zen is an outstanding way to shuttle music between sources , you can 't do this on the ipod ( except for a cumbersome work-around using the ipod as a hard drive instead of a player ) .
second , the " automatic " sync on creative lets you review the songs before it begins its transfer .
since the ipod lacks this review feature on its auto-sync and it only allows one-way transfers , the first time i connected my ipod to my laptop , i wiped out the 20gb of music i had transferred from my desktop to the ipod .
if the hard drive on your computer should fail , better have your music backed up somewhere or its gone !
the zen serves as a back-up device as well as a player .
third , creative software allows you to keep two windows open to look at both the content on the player and the computer .
only thing missing from creative is a cd burner .
lastly , ipod / itunes will not play wma formatted songs .
if you have a lot of those , be prepared to convert to mp3 .
itunes does what apple is famous for , makes software that works for the less computer saavy .
for those of us that like to tinker , i think creative offers some advantages .
player controls :
here 's where the ipod drives me nuts .
the player controls are too easy to hit accidentally .
if you happen to push the wrong button , you can wipe out the order of songs you had put in .
the ipod also does not let you see what 's coming up next on the player .
zen allows you to scroll up and down the song list selected on the player .
it also lets you remove songs from the play order .
if you bring up an album , but absolutely hate some of the tracks , the zen will allow you to delete that from the playing order .
you have to skip to the next track when your hated song comes up with the ipod .
lastly , you cannot manage anything on the ipod itself .
while you can create a temporary playlist , you can 't store it permanently , delete songs , search very easily , etc.
none of these features are available because of the ipod 's 1-way transfers - you cannot make changes on the ipod that are premanent .
again , the ipod is a beautiful thing to look at and touch , player controls are less functional .
i think the ipod versus zen typifies differences between apple and win machines .
win software can be a little cranky , but much more easier to customize to your needs .
with apple , you get a good product , but you get it the way apple wants you to have it .
if i had to do this again , i might get the 40gb zen .
its ability to serve as a back-up for my music collection is a huge plus.
i got this thing for christmas and i have been very happy with it ever since .
i was planning on getting an ipod , but i changed my mind last minute ... mostly because of the whole battery issue , i do n't have the patience for those sorta things .
my cuzin got an ipod and i wo n't say it is an awful product , but i will say that for the price , apple could do better as far as storage and battery life goes .
the only thing i would complain about the zen xtra is that the controls are n't as easy as the ipod 's , or as " sexy " looking .
i got this player for christmas & this was my first time using an mp3 player .
i have a large collection of cds and have loaded over 100 of them so far .
the software is quick & easy to use & i found the entire process very easily mastered .
as mentioned in other reviews the headphones are useless and need to be replaced right away !
the unit works great with my cassette adapter for my car & is also easily worked without taking your eyes off the road !
i have tried the belkin tunecast mobile fm transmitter but found there was too much interference .
overall it is a great unit & hopefully creative labs or some other vendor will soon come out with some accessories for it .
i purchased this mp3 player just last night after doing some scouting around .
here 's a basic run-down from what i learned :
flash card memory vs. hard drive ( i.e. why does a 256 mb player cost $$$...and a 40 gb ( 40,000 mb ) player only cost
mp3 players have either flash card memory or a hard drive in them .
the flash card memory is more expensive but is very light and compact .
that 's why you have these things that can be keychain size .
tiny !
mp3 players of this kind of memory are typically small and light and have between 64 mb - 1.5 gb of memory .
i am averaging 4.5 mb per song , to give you an idea of how many songs you can get by the amount of memory .
( 1 gb = 1,000 mb )
hard drives ( this is what most ipods have - and just about all mp3 players over 3-5 gb of memory ) .
cheaper to produce , holds a lot , heavier and has moving parts which means it 's a little more prone to damage from being banged around .
that said , they are pretty sturdy machines and i would n't let this dissuade you from getting an mp3 with a lot of memory .
just be aware of it .
this explains why you see what appears to be such weird pricing on mp3 players .
a 256 mb player ( roughly 60 songs for me ) is about x amount of dollars but a 30 gb ( 30,000 mb ) player ( roughly 6,650 songs ) sells for only slightly more .
it 's because the 256 player uses flash memory ( smaller / lighter ) and the 30gb uses a hard drive .
that 's the first thing to understand .
so consider what you 're going to use the device for .
if you 're a jogger and you want to strap it to your arm , i 'd recommend flash memory .
if you want to listen to tunes while you travel , i 'd get a hard drive because you can put so much on the thing - including audio books .
review of zen xtra - 40 gb
the device is larger than an ipod of similar capacity .
this did n't bother me too much because it 's still a decent size .
it comes with a good case that fits it snuggly .
the front cover ( which you remove to take out the battery ) feels flimsy but when snapped on , the device still feels pretty solid .
as some other reviewers noted , after it was connected to the computer for a bit , it somehow stopped reading the player so i had to replug it .
it did not lock up my computer or require a reboot .
the software lets you pop in a cd and then scans the internet to name the artist , track name and album name .
extremely convenient .
then it rips the tunes into mp3s and puts them on your computer .
you can even skip that step and rip them directly from the cd to the player .
( wo n't leave copy on your computer . )
the pros and cons of it :
great price .
the ipod costs more for the same amount of memory .
i thought the software was decent enough - it was n't complicated to learn at all .
the scroll button is sort of annoying to push - a nice button would be nicer but eh , not a big deal .
it also stores data so i can see myself placing some data files on here .
it is slightly larger than an ipod , no doubt about it .
for me , that was the only drawback .
i 'm really happy with this purchase .
also , when i installed the software , it said that windows xp had n't approved something with the drivers , etc - and that continuing it install may cause instability .
if you 're like me , that will definitely make you pause .
after i reviewed the manual ( a pdf file included on the cd ) , i felt better because they warned you about the message and said it would n't cause problems and , in fact , it has n't .
so if you have xp , be prepared for this and do n't be alarmed .
if you are out for an mp3 player with a lot of memory and do not want to spend a ton of money , i think this is a great purchase and strongly recommend it .
i would have liked to have given it 4 1/2 stars docking that 1/2 star only for the size .
i got this a while ago knowing nothing about it .
it is a beast .
if i wasnt a runner i would take a bullet in the foot for my nomad jukebox .
now heres the stuff you should know starting with the good things : the screen is really big and the blue light in the back is perfect , fast as hell in music transfer , controls are easy to use after mastering the scroll button , great sound and ive heard many mp3 players , a ton of different equilizer type deals on here .
there are a couple things i didnt like though but nothing serious : a little larger than other mp3s but still light , the software takes some time to get used to ( maybe 10-15 mins ) , and this thing would definitely be destroyed with one fall .
but it comes with a tank of a case and if you cut a piece out where the screen is you can always keep it in the case and still access everything .
ive seen em all , the archos , dell , ipods , everything ... good price and great sound makes this one the best in my opinion .
granted this is cheaper than an ipod .
cheaper in every way .
its far heavier and much larger which might not seem to matter except if you use it while running or keep it in your pocket .
its far more difficult to select songs and has no easy to use on the fly playlist creation such as the new ipod not to mention it does n't sinc with contact lists , phone numbers , address books , ect. like the ipod ( which eliminated my need for any kind of palm device ) .
it also has unproven battery life .
everyone who says i can 't buy the ipod because after excessive use in a short time ( the man who made the ipod battery life video admitted that he had used it extensively every day and charged fully every night for those 18 months , conditions under which any rechargeable battery dies .
use this for 18 months every day and see what happens , or look at a 2 year old electric razor and see if it holds the same charge as the first day you had it ) .
while it is an alternative to the ipod and one of the few viable ones its just that , an alternative and why would anyone seek an alternative to something that really needs no alternative choice because theres nothing wrong and everything right with it .
i 'd like to see how well a small company supports its mp3 player in 2 years when its battery dies as all rechargeable do .
finally the software used to put all the songs into it is vastly inferior to itunes on two levels , first it is poorly integrated into the overall player and clunky to use especially with tagging and second the wma audio format sucks , flat out sucks in terms of sound quality compared with the vastly superior aac format the apple ipod uses and it sticks you with one of the sub par paid music services such as napster instead of allowing to use the itunes store , which , if you ever plan to pay for your music , is by far the best .
before anyone says hey you have n't used the product , i have , my friend received one for christmas instead of an ipod and has since envied me for my vastly superior product .
pros :
* price and capacity
* slick-looking design and improved interface
* removable battery
cons :
* protective case completely useless as is since it obscures display window .
had to cut out a window using a swiss army knife .
how did this gigantic flaw go unnoticed by creative ?
* scroll button more cumbersome than on earlier models .
does n't always register push-button movement .
* eax equalizer accentuates dimished quality of mp3 files .
i have to rip everything as a 160 kbps wma file ( as opposed to 128 kbps mp3 ) to avoid hearing digital garbling .
* does not provide enough volume when connected to larger headphones , or external receivers ( car radio ).
* software is absolutely terrible :
-- > will not automatically transfer songs with identical titles ( if you have live albums or greatest hits albums , this will cause you inordinate frustration ).
-- > does not recognize player at random times , despite being connected and displaying player 's library .
-- > too difficult to change genre / album / track information for large number of tracks .
-- > you 'll be changing track information a lot because the cd database information utilized by the software is mediocre at best .
if you have any multi-disc box sets , you 'll notice that the artist 's name , album name , and genre will often change with every disc .
final verdict :
a good player at a great price with terrible software that makes ripping and transferring way more difficult than it should be .
after investigating a multitude of player options , i asked for and received the 60 gb zen xtra for christmas .
despite its being slightly larger than the ipod , i must say i was surprised to see how small it was when i unwrapped the box !
i am ripping my cd collection into 160 kbps wma files ; this gives an average of around 60-65 mb per cd , good for about 900 cds in the ~ 57,000 mb of free memory available to me .
file transfers are fast , nearly a song per second via usb 2.0 .
several people have complained of difficulty transferring multiple songs with the same title .
this is possible ! !
since the zen xtra does not use a folder structure , the " duplicate name " problem stems from the actual file name , not from the song 's title / artist / album .
solution ?
simply configure the mediasource software ( or windows media player , or your ripper-du-jour ) to create file names that include artist and ( especially ) album names in addition to track names .
using this method , i have not once encountered a situation where a track was rejected , and i have plenty of duplicate tracks on live and compilation albums .
even if there happened to be identical track titles on the same disc , you could still edit the file name manually and get them both onto the player .
my one issue with the mediasource software is that , despite pulling id3 tag data from the cdds service , the ripping process fails to populate the " year " field .
weird .
how does it sound ?
to my ears , a 160 kbps wma file sounds just as good as the source cd , and the zen xtra sounds just as good as a portable cd player .
no complaints there .
the eax features are pretty cool , as well , as creative has included a number of eq adjustments that , for example , compensate for the extraneous noise encountered in a car or on a train .
navigation could be better , but there is n't really anything the zen xtra can 't do once you 've gotten comfortable with it .
at the end of the day , what i wanted was a large-capacity player which allows me to easily play any album from my collection wherever i go , and the zen xtra 's combination of price , capacity and features easily meets those criteria .
i got this for christmas , and it is a great gift .
i have been ripping songs into it for the past few weeks , and the ease of use is wonderful .
the memory will hold an amazing amount of songs , my entire collection of cd 's will all fit on this great little tiny piece of digital fun .
plusses are the easy to remove battery and the terrific sound produced by the nomad .
the only two things that stop me from giving it 5 stars are the ho-hum software that comes with the system , and the traveling case it comes with .
this is a powerful piece of equipment .
it is great to no longer wonder what music i want to take with me for a cross country flight or a two week trip - now i just take everything .
ripping the songs , even with my 1.1 usb connection is still very quick , and the quality is very good .
considering the price and specs , this might be the best buy out there for a large memory mp3 player .
before jumping on the ipod train , take a look at this marvel .
i 'll state up front that i do not own a zen xtra and have not used one at all .
but you might find my review useful , nonetheless .
i purchased a jukebox 3 from creative almost a year ago .
two months ago , an internal part failed ( not due to customer abuse ; it just failed ) .
i got an rma from creative , sent my player in to them for repairs .
it took them twice as long to get to my unit as they said .
moreover , they want a total of $ 107 to repair it .
( this includes the $ 20 that you have to pay up front , just to get them to look at your player . )
if creative offered a 12-month warranty on their mp3 players , i 'd be covered .
but they offer only a 3-month warranty ( on all of their players , including the zen xtra ) .
so i 'm screwed .
but you do n't have to be .
if you buy a creative mp3 player , be sure to get the optional extended warranty .
or better yet , buy from another company that stands behind their products with a 12-month warranty .
it 's really a shame , because otherwise , creative mp3 players are very good , and have the best sound quality of any players on the market .
i shopped around for a while before buying a hard-drive mp3 player .
i read reviews , compared specs , and visited user forums .
despite all the hype about ipods , i knew i wanted something different , because i wanted more storage than the ipod i could afford would offer , and because i wanted more flexibility in where i purchased music online .
after some consideration i chose the 40gb nomad zen xtra from creative , and i have not been disappointed .
i purchased it at a retail store , and got an extended warranty .
first , the battery is replacable by the user , because creative intended it to be - unlike apple with the ipod .
it was easy enough to remove the front plate , and there was only one way the battery could be inserted .
creative also sells batteries via its website , so there 's no shipping off my player and waiting for it to be sent back to me with the new battery .
the new organizer software that ships with the nomad zen xtra could n't be easier to use .
point the " media sniffer " to your music files and let it do the rest .
you can create playlists , drag & drop songs and playlists to your player , and rip directly from cd to your player .
and with usb 2.0 , transferring music to your player is incredibly easy .
you can also delete songs from the player itself , and create playlists - on the fly - on your player .
the sound is great , and the volume is more than satisfactory for commutes and shutting out external noise .
i thought i 'd have to buy a set of headphones to use with it , but the included earbuds work quite well .
they could be more comfortable , but no complaints in the sound department .
i 've played around with the equalizer settings and am satisfied at the range of choices i have there too .
there are plenty other features that i have n't checked out , but i 'm sure i soon will .
it ships with a carrying case that has a belt clip on it .
however , i do n't like to carry it on my belt because the clip is n't secure and the case can slip off .
it happened to me once .
so now i keep it in my pocket .
also , the carrying case that came with mine covers up the display , so even though the side controls are reachable , i have to open it up to see the display .
it would have been better to have some sort of window on teh carrying case , so you could see the display without opening it .
that 's my only real complaint about the nomad zen xtra , though .
this player is an overall disappointment with a couple of big flaws that potential buyers should be wary of ; and all readers need to know about a third party software company that resolves virtually all of the creative mediasource file transfer issues .
zen good points :
1 . i achieved my basic objective ; my entire cd collection is on a portable device with lots of room to store more .
2 . most mp3 players have a gap between the end of one track and the start of the next ; it 's annoying in music that is intended to be continuous .
the zen has minimal stoppage between tracks ; when listening to music that continues from one track to the next the gap is just a hesitation - a slightly audible click ; if i am not listening for the progress from one track to the next i do n't even notice the click .
flaws :
1. creative mediasource software is ok to rip , catalog & burn music if you are starting from scratch ; but i used musicmatch to rip my cds before i bought the zen ( 278 cds ; 3,400 tracks ; 12.5 gb of music all ripped at 128bps ) and guess what ?
mediasource did not recognize my tags !
my choices at that moment were to manually re-tag my music or re-rip using mediasource .
i do n't think so .
btw , if you * are * ripping your cds , mediasource accesses the cddb music catalog over the internet and the few cds i experimented with all provided good quality [ correct & uncluttered ] tag information .
2 . despite most reviewers giving kudos to the zen for music quality , i experienced a flaw using eax .
after about 45 mins of listening there was audible static in the player .
when i turned eax off the static disappeared .
when i turned eax back on the static was also not present .
creative are * the * sound people for computers , i can 't understand why eax would introduce static .
is eax faulty ?
is my unit defective ?
was i just unlucky at that moment ?
was it a full moon that night ?
i have n't figured it out yet .
3 . mediasource is an application with serious user interface flaws .
do not underestimate this in your purchase decision .
many reviewers refer to it as " clunky " or " difficult " - heed their warnings .
some amazon reviewers say it corrrupted their music files ;
i did n't use it long enough to know , but clearly you need to use it with caution .
4 .the zen * stores * data files , but does not allow a folder structure nor does it allow documents to be opened or programs to be launched from its disk ( they must be copied to another hard drive to be launched ) .
in other words , the zen is not a convenient data storage device ; only buy the capacity you need for your music collection ( see point 1. for some sizing information ) .
my goal of using it as a music player * and * data storage device has not been met ; do n't make the same mistake .
5 . the zen does not have a stop button !
you can stop playback by pressing 2 buttons , first the pause button , then the " next track " or " previous track " button .
but this is * not documented * in the zen manual - neither the hard copy nor the cd version .
to discover this i had to read about 10 online reviews ( with many complaints about the lack of stop button ) before i found one reviewer who was smart enough to both figure it out & document it .
6 . the zen nx battery requires the ac adapter to recharge ; it does not charge by usb cable ; this is not tragic , but usb recharging would be a convenient ( additional ) choice .
if you are buying a zen xtra check whether the battery recharges via usb ; it does not on the zen nx .
7 . mediasource did not install on my personal notebook .
it referred to a " microsoft jet database engine " error and the install program suggested i download a service pack from the ms website to fix the problem ;
i did that and re-installed the software but had the same error .
creative provided e-mail support ;
i followed their advice but that failed , too .
i experimented with installing mediasource on 2 other computers at home and it worked fine .
so it is probably " just bad luck " on my part that the personal notebook i own had this install error .
however , it did motivate me to find a work-around solution .
third party software to the rescue
after much frustration ( above ) i found the notmad explorer ; cute product name for software that resolves virtually all of the creative mediasource file transfer & organization problems .
i am not associated with the company , i am not providing a url , but search for notmad and you should find it pretty easily .
this provides drag & drop transfers of music between the computer & zen ; each time it transfers music to the zen it asks if you want to generate a playlist ; it allows playlists developed in other software to be transferred to the zen ( .
m3u files are used by most mp3 players like musicmatch and winamp , but not creative - without notmad you need to manually recreate your playlists ) ; it does n't care what software you use to rip or catalog your music - creative or any other company - all my 12.5 gb of music were transferred to the zen with correct tags - hooray !
notmad has other features too , but this is not an advertisement so please see the company 's web site for more information ...
conclusion :
if i knew then what i know now i would have paid the extra to get an ipod & avoided the zen .
given that i already have the zen the only reason i am happy with it is because of the notmad software .
and i am hoping the static i heard when using eax was a blip ...
to summarize , i am using the creative zen as a mobile device ;
i am using musicmatch to rip & catalog ( and if i choose , download ) music ;
i am using notmad explorer to move music & playlists between the zen & my computer .
the only creative software i am using is the device driver ( s ).
this is one of those items that , at first glance , looked cool but did n't really ring a bell with me .
now that i own it , however , i can 't imagine being without it !
i have stored around 60 cd 's ( at 160kbps ) on this and have barely touched the available memory .
the sound quality is fantastic ( cd quality ) and it is really great to carry this around instead of stacks of cd 's or tapes !
it is exceedingly simple to navigate around in this device .
i did n't read a thing about how to operate it -- it was just intuitive .
i was cruising around the device within 20 minutes .
the pc-side software can be goofy and takes a little getting used to but it 's not as bad as some reviewers have indicated .
one other plus is that napster now supports this device via their software .
my one recommendation to creative is to get some marketing people to work on the names of these things .
they have a whole bunch of devices that all have the same-sounding name ( and they are long ) .
whereas some folks have the " ipod " , i have the " nomad jukebox zen xtra " ( not to be confused with the " nomad jukebox zen nx " ) .
minor gripe .
i can 't imagine why i would spend hundreds of dollars more to have an ipod .
i just bought one and returned it as defective for good reason .
in a quick summation , here is what i found .
+ the memory ( 40 gb ) is staggering .
i had downloaded about 1000 songs and had room for another 9000 !
it may have taken several years to fill this up .
+ i had no problem using musicmatch software already on my computer to load songs and albums onto this unit
+ screen was good , easy to read
+ / - sound quality was good but it was going to take some tweakings with settings to try to make it great .
- the software that came with it was tough to load .
i got weird messages about it not being ok 'd by microsoft ( or something like that ) , then i thought it failed to load , then it loaded .
- the top that covered the battery kept poping off without much of a touch near the bottom latch .
not good if you 're taking this traveling .
the top did not fit well into the unit . ( felt defective )
- the cover that came with it did n't fit very well
- the flywheel you use for most of the navigation was n't in tightly and it was uneven as far as the amount of pressure to make it engage .
i was n't sure how long it would take before it would break .
- this did not feel like quality construction and i was n't sure how long it would last .
i spent much time debating on whether i should go with the zen xtra or the ipod .
i decided to save the $ $ and opted for the zen xtra ... and i was not disappointed .
the player is intuitive and outputs great sound quality .
navigation is easy and i found that syncing files from the player to the computer ( and vice versa ) was easy too .
many have complained about the software included but in my opinion it 's easy to use and effective .
i love this player and am extremely happy with my decision .
i cannot recommend it enough ! !
i recently bought the nomad jukebox zen xtra , and did n't even get as far as charging the battery .
the construction of the player is the cheesiest i have ever seen -- the front panel refused to clip in correctly , leaving a noticeable gap between the panel and base of the player .
this gap allowed the front panel to fly off after barely being touched .
i can 't comment on the quality of the audio , because it was back at the store before i ripped a single cd .
i 'm not willing to accept shoddy construction on something i paid over 250 dollars for .
if the casing of the player is this bad , i can 't image that the hardware is of very good quality .
do n't be pulled in by the great price -- you get what you pay for , and there 's a reason this model is so cheap .
like many reviewers , i really wanted to like this product .
the price / performance looked just right .
when i bought it late last year , there were enough reviews that i knew the navigation wheel and software would be less than ideal , but it sounded like a fair tradeoff .
boy was i wrong .
reading the reviews , it looks as though people really love this device for a month or two and then come to hate it .
that 's been my experience .
if i 'd been paying attention , i would have noticed the 3 month warranty .
but i did n't because i 'm used to electronic products having a 12 month warranty .
now i know better .
i 've had this thing just over a month and the headphone jack has already come loose .
a $ 300 device and they skimped on the headphone jack ?
so now i 've got to call their customer " service " ( of course , no 800 number ) to send the thing back .
from the other reviews i 've read , it sounds like that wo n't be the end of my troubles .
i fully expect it to go bad again in the same or some other way in the next 6 months because , as other reviewers have pointed out , the construction is pretty flimsy .
now let 's talk about the software .
like other reviewers , installation was hell .
subsequent behavior even worse .
about 10 % of the time it can 't find the device when i attach it to my pc .
after i had it a couple weeks , it got into a state where it could never find the device , no matter how often i rebooted my pc , reset the device , reloaded drivers , etc , etc. creative 's online support was no help at all .
in fact , i 'd have to rate it among the worst i 've ever encountered .
finally , i uninstalled and reinstalled the software , the usual measure of last resort for this sort of thing .
to my amazement , even that process was error-prone .
it took several days of attempts before things finally " worked " again and i have n't a clue why .
that does n't leave me with a good feeling about its future stability .
i did buy the notmad software a week ago and found that a vast improvement .
but that 's a moot point now .
my gut tells me the nomad will in the long run be , at best , a 40gb portable hard drive , albeit one on which i can 't create folders , or , at worst , a very expensive lesson in companies never to buy products from again ( i have their audigy sound card and find it in many ways equally frustrating ) .
my gut tells me i 'll also end up buying an ipod .
which means that in trying to save a few hundred dollars , i 'll end up spending more than twice that .
be forewarned .
i would have given a 3 to 5 star review in my first few weeks , depending on how mad i felt about the crummy software .
now , even 1 star seems like i 'm giving creative the benefit of the doubt .
i will never buy a creative product again .
i purchased a jukebox , it got fried while being recharged , they asked for $ 20usd just to look at it and said that they would charge me for repaing the damned thing .
no way , now i have an ipod and i 'm a very happy man .
also bought a soundblaster card that they sold for the mac .
within months they stopped supporting the new mac os .
what kind of a company does that !
carry your entire collection !
pros :
1 ) great sound ( > 98db signal-to-noise ratio beats ipod 's " unspecified " ratio ) and good power output allow the zen xtra to drive large head-phones as well as external speakers .
with my sennheiser 497 headphones , the volume is loud enough at 12 ( max is 20 ) .
the player works well with my sony srs-a 202 powered speakers .
2 ) the player user interface ( ui ) is intuitive to use , and allows easy navigation of a large or small collection .
3 ) the nomad explorer ( winxp style interface ) works well to transfer files back and forth to use the nomad as an external although the tech support web-site states that the primary intended purpose of the player is as a player .
the nomad explorer provide most of the functionality offered by 3rd party programs like notmad .
4 ) usb 2.0 means fast data transfers ( 1 song / sec ! ).
5 ) the cheap , user-replaceable battery ( $ 50 from creative ) is a great advantage over the ipod 's battery which costs $ 100 to replace .
6 ) excellent battery life - 14 hours beats ipod 's .
7 ) chic look and good build - the player comes in a compact form with a metal face plate .
i use it primarily in the provided protective case although i have dropped it about 3 feet from my desk ( by accident ) as well as have played it outdoors in - 30 fahrenheit weather ( by design ) and it has continued to work fine .
8 ) creative mediasource , although not as sleek looking as windows mediaplayer , is effective in organizing your collection and is linked to a good cddb service ( gracenotes ).
a. the cddb downloads information for the cd that you insert such that you do not have to type in the track information such as album , artist , song title , etc.
i do n't always care for gracenotes ' genre listings but it allows easy editing of id3 tags .
b. fast mediasource cd ripping - takes about 40 seconds for a cd on my pentium 4 pc ( 2.4 ghz with 1gb ram ) with 52x drive .
c. i do love audio sync which allows a one-click synchronization between the player and the music collection on the computer .
9 ) wake-up feature that allows you to set up the player to wake up and play selected music at a specified time .
i have it connected to speakers for a nice musical alarm in the morning .
10 ) multiple play modes - tracks in order of album , shuffle , etc. , is standard on all jukebox players but worth noting that the zen xtra is not deficient in this matter .
11 ) minimal pause between songs - less than that on other devices - good achievement for a hard-drive based player
12 ) big storage - my entire cd collection in one small device ( 5717 songs , 491 albums and counting ) !
cons :
1 ) player is not plug and play - need to install nomad explorer first and mediasource to transfer files and i had to be patient as i was used to winxp detecting the player and dragging and dropping the music files into it .
2 ) music organization is based on id3 ( by genre , artist , album , etc. ) and this can be a problem for older downloaded music files with missing or incorrect id3 information .
this was not a problem for me as most of my collection was ripped from my own cds and i updated the id3 tags on my downloaded music .
3 ) folders cannot be created for the audio files .
this is unnecessary with id3 tags but people who like to organize their music in folders will not like the zen as the audio files do not allow subfolders but rely on id3 tags .
the workaround is to update id3 tags on your files ( through mediasource ) but it can be a hassle if you have many such music files .
4 ) no fm or voice recording - these would have been nice extras .
5 ) lack of good accessories - this is more of an oversight of creative 's marketing .
both creative and third-party powered speakers work great , as do third-party wireless transmitters .
a dock is unnecessary as the charger and usb cable do the necessary .
6 ) the case occludes the display screen when it is closed .
i would have liked to be able to see what is playing without having to open the case .
7 ) some people have problems with the flip switch on the bottom that releases the player cover - has not been an issue for me and is immaterial if you use the case as the case covers the switch .
experience :
once i got home with it i had to first install creative mediasource and figure out how it transferred files to the player .
this required patience as i was used to winxp detecting the player and dragging and dropping the music files into it ( which i could do with my flash player ) .
i did already have mediasource installed due to owning the creative audigy 2 soundcard but i did need to re-install it from the supplied cd as the older version did not have the connector to the zen .
also , i downloaded the latest firmware upgrade and software updates .
recommendations :
1 ) buy an extended coverage if offered by the retailer as this device has moving parts and is essentially a portable hard-drive .
2 ) buy a good pair of head-phones unless you already own one .
3 ) use files with id3 tags - not a problem if your cds were ripped within the last year .
4 ) a set of speakers and a wireless transmitter are accessories that will add to your player 's usability ( the latter will allow you to play it on your car radio , home receiver , etc. )
5 ) handle the player with care - it is not meant to be dropped .
resources : http://www.nomadworld.com, http://www.nomadness.net
pros summary :
great sound ; good interface ; replaceable , powerful battery ; good software ; wake-up , sleep timers ; multiple play modes
cons summary :
not plug & play ; relies on id3 ; no fm or recording
bottom-line :
can 't beat carrying 500-cd collection with me wherever i go .
my favorite is to play " any track " - am rediscovering my music !
also love waking up to music with attached speakers .
i got the 40gb jukebox zen xtra for christmas .
so , i 've had it for a month , and the headphone jack went out .
i called creative and they said to send it in and they would decide if it in warranty .
it 'll take 10-15 business days for them to decide form when they get it .
nothing but hassle with this company .
what kind of product goes out within a month ?
this thing does its job .
i 've compared and compared and compared .
it was either the 40gb ipod or this one .
i felt better with this one since it had the shuffle feature and i 'm not too keen on www.ipodsdirtysecret.com.
the longest that i have n't charged it was maybe 3 days and that 's turning it off every now and then .
replacement battery is $ 50 compared to ipod 's $ 150 .
cons :
the only thing i do n't like about this is the cover does suck .
i dropped it from the couch , landed on carpet and the cover and battery flew out .
it 's kinda heavy , kinda like having a walkman .
headphones suck , i would invest in some cool ones since it has the eax feature .
the software sucks .
it overrides songs so you have to go in there and put it your own titles especially if you have remixes .
also the feature to automatically put in the song information is n't always accurate .
you discover this later when you 're listening to a song and it 's the wrong title , causing you to rename everything on your own .
i was prepared to love it .
i 've had this thing for less than a month , treated it quite well , never dropped it , and the headphone jack is all screwed up .
now i have to return it and rip all my music again .
good thing i got a replacement plan .
wish it included somebody to re-rip all the songs .
reading other reviews , i do n't think the replacement one will be any better .
i 'm not looking forward to ripping my entire collection every month or two .
maybe i 'll get lucky with the next one .
kind of bulky and the wheel is awkward , but i can deal with that .
software definitely sucks , hangs up my notebook about half the time , but i do n't mind buying notmad .
i am annoyed that the player 's not automatically recognized as a hard drive .
i do n't want to install software and drivers on every computer i 'm ever at .
makes me use it much less than i otherwise would .
looking at the glowing reviews from people that have had this for a week or two , i kind of wish people would wait until they 've had a product a little while to review it .
i loved it until it broke , but less than a month is not an acceptible period of time for something to work .
i loved this product when i first got it - great sound , easy to use ( even though i agree that the software was n't the best ) and held enough songs to suit any mood .
i was willing to live with the larger size ( inconvenient on the road ) but the durability was a big zero .
always carried it in a case in by briefcase but one day the hard drive just zapped .
tech support could n't figure it out and gave up .
i am disappointed and looking elsewhere for something that can withstand the " rigor " of a business traveler .
i bought the 30gb zen xtra from a well-known national electronics store as soon as i saw they were advertising it for $ 219.99 .
the combination of the price , storage size , and player features makes this player the best on the market .
the biggest drawback that people have about the zen xtra is the software .
fact is , it could n't be easier to use .
these models now ship with creative 's mediasource program , which allows you to highlight the files on your computer that you want to add to your zen xtra , click a button , and transfer it straight to your player .
assuming you have filled in all the id3 tags on your mp3s , you will not have any problem finding them on your zen xtra .
sound quality on this is amazing , as with all creative products .
even leaving it on the default setting ( without the eax enhancements ) produces crystal clear playback .
the menu allows you to search for files by artist , genre , and album quite easily .
the battery stays charged for a long time , and takes no more than 2 or 3 hours at most to fully recharge via the included ac adapter .
connect the player to your computer ( via usb ) , open up mediasource , and you can listen to your stored mp3s as they stream directly from the xtra !
get those mp3s off your hard drive , save space , and enjoy your massive music library .
awesome feature .
usb 2.0 transfer is insanely fast .
minor complaints : 1 ) even though the music is sorted via id3 tag on the player , the option to search for music contained in a folder is unavailable .
that is , if a folder on your computer called " mp3 " has slayer ( thrash metal ) , stravinsky ( classical ) , and ice cube ( rap ) in it , you will only be able to play the contents of that folder by searching for the artists or genres manually .
the zen xtra will transfer the files to the player , but not the folder name .
not a big hassle as many would have you think .
2 ) having unfilled id3 tags will cause music to be potentially placed in a folder called " unknown . "
i would recommend against using id3v2 tags , and stick with id3v1 only .
when the previous versions of the zens were shipped with musicmatch , people had this problem because musicmatch creates both sets of tags , which seem to confuse the zen xtra .
take the time to fill in those tags !
3 ) with mediasource being so easy , i found no use for the bundled nomad explorer software .
in fact , it caused my system to hang more times than not , so i uninstalled it and stuck with mediasource 100 % .
so what are you waiting for ?
get one now !
i received this as a gift for christmas .
my first impression was positive .
after using it for a few weeks ( the amount of time before the hard drive crashed ) it revealed a few of its shortcommings .
first , the sound quality is okay , but ( as at least one other reviewer has mentioned ) the eax can cause audio interference after about 30 minutes .
at first i thought it was my headphones but it was not .
it was just a problem with the player .
second , the menu system and controls are poorly designed .
the toggle button that is used to scroll is poorly designed and does not work well .
the general button placement is not very user friendly .
this would not be a great problem if you did n't have so much info to scroll through on a regular basis .
third , the poor design continues with the case .
the flap completely covers the screen because there is no window to see it .
it also covers over the power jack when closed .
after the first one fatally crashed , the replacement did not work .
i bought an ipod and am very happy with it .
overall , a good buy for the price .
easy enough to navigate through , although i 'd prefer a sturdier button besides the thumbwheel scroll / pushbutton .
my biggest complaint is the battery life or lack there of .
there is no way the battery supplied lasts 14 hours !
at best , i 've gotten 3 hours + .
i 've tried draining it until it wo n't turn on & recharging it overnight .
no difference .
if you 're intrested in buying a spare battery it 'll run you another $ 50 , a little steep i thought .
i 've also had the nomad zen lock-up several times .
the good news is if you can 't get it to reset / reboot you can still pull the battery and reinstall it .
that 's a huge plus by itself compared to the infamous ipod and similar mp3 players where the battery is permanently installed & removing it voids the warranty .
the nomad zen could use a little sturdier construction like the archos jukeboxes or some kind of shock resistant case .
at the very least , a sturdier more protective carrying case would be nice .
pros : huge storage capacity for the price , easy to navigate , can modify existing playlists on the fly , has a removable battery
cons :
battery life is about 1/4 of that advertised , no operators manual available for any of the nomad zen players ( on or off-line ) , occasional software lockups , replacement battery is expensive
note : about 2gb ( 5 % ) of the advertised 40gb of storage capacity is used for the operating software ( firmware ) .
this is nothing new , every mp3 player , memory card , etc. , used for digital media today has some kind of preloaded operating software on it .
what 's going on creative labs ?
is it a coincidence that i no longer can get any of your nomad zen xtras ( worst name ever ) at best buy and now the 60gb nomad xtra is " sold out " or more likely " discontinued " at the almighty amazon.com ?
hmmmmm ....
if you read reviews for the 4 main contenders in this market - the ipod , creative zen , rio karma and iriver ihp - you 'll notice that each has their pros and cons ; none are perfect and you should decide whether you want to take to take the plunge now or later .
if your view in life is that you are going to pay $ x00 to get a device then it must be near ideal - ruggedly constructed , fault proof , good product support , easy to use software - then do yourself a favor and do n't buy yet .
all the products have drawbacks and are not mature yet ; if you expect value and reliability then wait a while .
if you are ok paying $ x00 for something that can be used now , but is likely to both get better and cost less in the future then try to determine which device is the lesser of evils for you .
ipod clearly has the most buzz .
great design and looks cool .
most people love the appearance and praise the touch sensitive buttons .
it has a hold button to deactivate the buttons to avoid accidents ; however , enough reviewers have complained that the hold button is easily broken and then the device can 't be used .
some of the more geeky ( non-apple type ) reviewers complain that the scrollwheel is annoying after a while and they resent being forced into this apple-like interface .
everyone complains about the non-replaceable battery , yet this is the price of sturdy construction .
ipod can be used as an external disk , and apparently stores files without problem .
however , the music and data are apparently not separated ; ipod reviewers complain about " white noise " in random feedback mode that comes from appointments / contacts created on the ipod during synchronization .
synchronizing music among computers , if you have more than one , seems to be an issue ; research this before buying if you have multiple computers you want to be synchronized .
reviews for sound quality are generally ( but not universally ) positive .
reviews of apple 's support are generally poor ; they seem to address issues in warranty , which covers a short time after delivery / pickup of item .
after that it seems like you 're on your own .
ipod has no stop button ; when new users mention this ipod veterans call it " unnecessary " and " so 20th century " .
creative zen feedback suffers from construction quality , poor product support , difficulty of using the scroll wheel and reasonably consistent feedback about problems with the headphone jack .
construction quality is a difficult item .
the zen has a detachable face plate that allows the battery to be replaced .
what is added in functionality ( battery replacement ) detracts in build quality as the face plate is prone to popping off .
drop if just a few inches on a hard surface and the faceplate pops off ( but not if it 's in its case ) .
many reviewers say the faceplate simply did n't fit well so they returned the zen .
feedback on creative 's product support is universally poor ; this is not limited to the zen , it applies to all the company 's products .
the scroll wheel is finicky ; it works most of the time but there is a learning curve for pressing it just right ; new users say they have 50 % - 75 % success rate ; some find it so frustrating that they just return the device .
the creative software is awkward / difficult to use and just plain does n't load on some computers .
enough people have reported that their headphone jack does n't work after a month of using the device to believe that creative has some inbuilt manufacturing or quality control problem .
the zen does n't support folders so it is not really a storage device ; even with third party software that " creates " folders , documents and programs can 't be launched from the zen , so it is not a hard disk , it 's a storage device at best .
reviews for sound quality are generally ( but not universally ) positive .
the zen has no stop button .
veteran zen users have explained how to stop if that 's what you want .
the rio karma feedback suffers from sensitivity in the hard disk .
it seems like movement , even small movement , causes skipping in playback and even the device freezing .
if you plan to carry the device around ( it is a mobile device , right ? ) then this is something you might want to think about .
karma gets consistently good reviews for sound quality and connectivity from its docking device , which has rca output jacks and ethernet jacks for connectivity .
usability ( button usage , feature selection , menu structure , display size and quality ) also has good feedback .
repair seems to be an issue ; some say the repair do n't exist
- you just have to buy a new player .
perhaps because of its smaller user base there is also a lack of accessories .
like the zen , the karma does not support folders and is not designed to be a data storage device .
it only comes in 20gb ; enough for most people , not for those with large collections ripped at high sampling rates .
the karma does have a stop button .
there are n't many reviews for the iriver ihp .
those that have it like it .
the only complaint seems to be that the disk rotation is slow , leading to longer delays in some functions ( playback and even a slow display of the menu ? ) .
otherwise feedback seems to be good .
no comments on reliability , warranty , repairs , accessories .
no-one mentions whether there is a stop button , but the photos do n't show one .
none of these are perfect .
if you have the appetite choose the one that you think has the least deficiencies or is best suited to you .
accept that there will be better devices ( or new generations of these ones ) in a year or two that will cost less .
if that is for you then pay the money , learn from the experience and you 'll be a more informed buyer when you buy device # 2 .
if you are n't into paying $ x00 to learn and experiment , or the cons outweigh the pros , then wait a year or so .
sure , this thing is definitely more cost-effective than an ipod .
but with a low price , comes lower quality .
our special friends at creative gave this thing good sound quality , great features , long battery life , and an unbeatable price .
the catch is it 's built like a piece of crap .
it lasted about 1 1/2 weeks .
i did n't abuse it , i charged it every day , but the headphone jack just sort of fizzled out .
i tried re-setting it , i tried just about every pair of headphones in my house ( 10 pairs ) , and nothing worked .
so i contacted customer service at creative , but they said , " if the product seems broken , we cannot help , " or something to that effect .
wow .
do n't get me wrong , the thing was like heaven for about a week .
if you want a quality mp3 player , splurge on an ipod .
if you really need to save , buy this thing on amazon , they eventually gave me a full refund .
i bought myself an rca mp3-cd player , and i 'm happy with that until a cheap , worthwhile mp3 player coomes out .
i bought the player this week and i like it by far .
this is my fourth mp3 player ( creative nomad jukebox2 and 3 , rio chie , and this one ) , and my third player from creative .
here 's something you have to know before you considering about buying this one .
pro : 1 .
removable and cheap battery - a li battery usually works properly for 1-3 years .
my friend has an i-pod for about 2 years and the battery has so so messed up .
his i-pod can only play for a couple of hours with a fully recharging now .
2 .
value : comparing data storage with price .
3 .
size and style :
the appearance is okayed ( at least not ugly ) .
the size is small ( just a little bit bigger than an i-pod . )
4 .
easy to use : a lot of reviews has mentioned about this
con :
the software , mediasource , cannot work on my pc . ( laptop , intel p4-2.0 , xp os ) .
a tons of reveiws has reported this problem and the same here .
in fact , each of my creative mp3 players had software problem in the first place .
however , the creative lab did come out new update to fix their software problems .
i am crossing my finger and wish they will fix the problem .
ps : ( mediasource provides similar functions with ms mediaplay such like cd ripping , tagging , music database managing , music file transfering , and more )
now i use ms mediaplayer , musicmatch ( free downladed ) , and " explorer / my computer / grab files from disk c or d into the player " to replace the mediasource .
in short , this player is good at size , value , hardware design but really bad at its software
alright , well i read alot of these reviews , and i read alot of bad and good things about this player .
well to say , i had a very bad history with players .
one broke , one got stolen , and then i bought the riovolt sp - 350 .
if you are planning to buy that player , do not !
that player is a complete piece of sh ***.
i returned it once , then i sent it back , and it is crap .
now getting back to this .
i ordered this player for christmas , and so far i have it for only 2 weeks .
now as others said , so far this player is an awesome player , there are flaws .
cons :
1 .
the display is awesome , you can see everything you want and read it clearly
2 .
huge storage space , i loaded my entire collection of music , which isnt that much , 400 songs , and still have 26 gb , out of the 28 provided to you .
( 28 not 30 because software itself takes space ) .
and those songs mostly are 320 kbps.
3 .
the sound is awesome , but if u put it too loud , depends on yoursound quality , the sound might crack .
4 .
with eax on , you can modify your sound , with 4 different presets , which is pretty good , you can get different variations with it .
5 .
if you use software correctly , put in all the id3 tags , you will get an awesome database collection , from which you can easily access your songs .
you can also search for your song , which is good .
6 .
i dont know what other people are saying , but the software is awesome .
you can easily access ur files , and easily fill in the id3 tags , which can take a while with a big collection of music , but if your not lazy , you will do it without a problem .
and i read today that you can also have online fill out the id3 , so its not a problem .
7 .
battery recharge , is an awesome thing , because it recharges in only like 2-3 hours .
8 .
when you turn on your player , the player turns on really fast , and the music continues to play , as you left it when you were turning it off .
9 .
you can manage your profile , change the contrast of backlight , make different type of display , either list or tabbed .
you can do other different things with it such as choose what kind of " now playing " interface , you can see the interface as modern or classical .
there is an alarm , i still havent used it yet , but it should be good .
there is a clock , and date , which can get helpful .
10 .
the player has firmware , which will remove the glitches , if there are any .
11 .
the music plays awesome , never skips , even if u run for a bit , so you can listen to music without interruption .
cons :
1 .
the one and most major thing that i was dissapointed with , in this player , is the battery life .
the product manufacturer promised me 14 hours , and what i recieved was 6-8 .
5 hours max. i did it like this
eax on : 6 hours eax off : 8.5 hours
2 .
the panel seems like it will come off very easily as other people have said .
3 .
you need the software to actually transfer files
4 .
the player has its minor glitches like for example when i turn it on , 60 percent of the time , it sais , shutting down , which means i have to turn off , and turn it on again , which is not to my likings .
also , the player sometimes freezes , not a very big problem , but can also be annoying .
( but as any hard drive , all of them freeze at certain points )
well thats about it , and as people said in earlier previews that the headfone jack gets messed up , stil havent happened to me , and i hope it doesnt .
and also , it 's priced very affordably .
with 40gb of storage i have about 7,500 songs on the player ( everything music file i have is on there ) with room for about 2,500 more .
a similarily priced 15gb ipod would n't have been nearly enough room .
having my entire music collection is great when travelling ( both on plane and car trips ) and i do n't have to decide what to bring or copy onto the player -- it 's all there .
having to copy / delete files would be time-consuming and is rendered a non-issue with 40gb of storage .
the software interface supplied was very easy to use but i went ahead and got red chair 's " notmad " software because of some advanced features i wanted .
the sound is great even with the supplied earbuds -- but i find earbuds uncomfortable so i use different headphones .
on planes i use a splitter so two headphones can be plugged in for two people and the sound is equally good .
sound settings can be adjusted for personal preference .
accessing files by artist and album ( i mostly look things up by artist ) is easy and intuitive .
possibly the biggest advantage this player has ( if price was n't enough ) is the fact that the user can replace the battery him / herself by opening the lid and popping in the new battery .
since batteries do run out on everything , this will also be a big money-saver since ipods , irivers , rca , dell , all have built-in batteries that need to be replaced by a technician ( apple charges 100 bones for the battery replacement ) .
try before you buy if at all possible : although i am a mac addict now for over a decade and everyone i know has previously bought an ipod , the nomad zen xtra was a far better value and is just as easy to use with regards to both hardware and software interface .
i personally am not crazy about the looks of either the ipod or the nomad .
the ipod 's white plastic look / surface does n't suit me .
i like the nomad 's color better , but it 's not terribly flashy .
the mini ipod 's look the best to me -- but with only 4gb there 's no way i would ever buy any mp3 player with a measly 4gb of storage .
my advice to mp3 buyers : consider how much storage space you will need , then try and listen before you buy -- mp3 players can only fully evaluated by holding and listening to them .
i have had mine for a month now and have to say i have enjoyed it .
the pros :
price !
almost half what an ipod would cost you !
i do n't care how it looks and i always drive so the size is not important to me .
sound quality is wonderful , i really like the smart volume sound normalization .
yes the included earphones suck but everyone replaces them anyway .
i quickly got to use to the interface and can find any song / playlist etc fast enough .
i also liked the fact that you can save custom playlist you made on the player not just the computer !
cons .
creative software stinks .
it 's horrible .
redchair software makes nice software that allows you to do everything you would want to and more !
the front cover can pop off easily but i always have mine in the case so i did n't notice after first day .
have had the player since xmass and love it !
pros :
great sound , very long battery life ( i routinely play it for 12 + hours ) , very fast recharges rate , removable battery , storage size , nice screen , firmware updates , and great price .
cons :
short warranty ( 3 months , so i got the extended warranty at best buy ) , occasional freeze up ( easily fixed by popping out battery ) , somewhat flimsy navigation wheel .
neutral :
i did n't even try the included software .
i just bought notmad manager ( $ 25 ) and file transfers are easy drag and drop , songs stored by id3 tags not by folders , needs to have software on computer to transfer files , no window on case ( nice case otherwise .
this is an excellent player , especially for the price , with features that are comparable to and even excel the ipod .
for a price that 's still less than even the lowest level ipod i was able to get this 40gb monster , and the best part is it works as great as it was advertised to and then some .
here are the pros and cons ( few there are ) in detail :
look / design :
the system is terrific in size and design , imo looking better than the ipods .
it 's bigger , but people have grossly exaggerated the size differences - it 's only about half an inch longer and 1/3 inch thicker than the new-generation ipods .
it 's very solidly built , and has a nice dense feel to it .
i find all of the controls well-placed and not flimsy in the least .
the scroll wheel is better than the ipod 's as well , in that you do n't risk giving yourself a cramp running your thumb around in circles endlessly - just a small nudge of the finger and you 're there .
the screen 's large and easily read .
the only beef i can raise in this regard is the pop-off face , that sometimes comes off a bit easily , but besides that it 's perfect .
sound : exceptional , though i can 't really compare it to the ipod .
from what i 've heard it 's at least equal .
like others have mentioned , you can manage to hear new things in songs even though they 're on lower bit levels .
there 's no so-called background hiss that i 've noticed , at least so far .
interface - practically seamless .
songs are recognized automatically by id3 tags , which at first i was against since i had organized my files by folder with a previous player from iriver .
yet after ensuring that all the id3 tags are in order ( with the software which is actually not as bad as people make it out ) it actually turns out to be really handy .
it 's a dedicated music playing device , anyway , so this serves it better .
you can find any song quicky by an artist , album , or genre search .
playlists can be generated on the fly ( which is a bit clunky but still a really nice bonus ) or by using the software , and there are a bevy of eq options .
the only thing missing is an option to adjust the balance .
software :
as i mentioned before , the creative mediasource software is actually really robust despite what others have said , though notmad may still work better .
it 's easy to transfer , preview , and organize files .
the in-program id3 tag editing is a strong point , as well .
it was no problem for me to use their software .
some may complain that there 's no drag-and-drop capability , but what they should realize is that this is mainly a portable music player , not a computer accessory or hard drive .
the software and design are geared towards enhancing the music experience .
overall , i 'm giving this 5 stars as i 've seen nothing of the problems people have repeatedly cried havoc over , but as i 've only had the player for a while i leave room for doubt if the headphone jack , hissing , or scroll wheel problems show up with me too .
so far , however , i 'm a very happy customer .
please consider this much superior piece of equipment before plopping down half a grand for an ipod .
do n't buy this player .
i recently bought this after my archos 20 multimedia self-destructed ( do n't get me started on that piece of junk ! ) and expected it to be flawless .
unfortunately , after loading 280 + songs , all i get now is " player either not connected or busy . "
it will not load any further songs on and customer service has no idea what to do .
do n't buy this player .
do not buy this product --
i took perfect care of this player and still it died in the week after the lousy 90 day warranty ended .
nearly 4000 songs went up in smoke .
the software is not good either and the driver has trouble working with other sound blaster products , which is very dumb .
ok , im writing yet another review , about a week from my previous one .
honestly , i love this player .
one horrible flaw , or mayybe more than one .
once again , the sound is awesome , the batterly life is only 6-8 hours , and that is because all my music is 320 kbps which does affect the battery life .
ok so i donno about what other people said , how the player breaks and stuff , and the headfone jack , fortunately that did not happen to me .
however , my hard drive did fail , and i have not dropped it once .
therefore im saying im returning it right now , and i will see wat happens with my next zen xtra ( same replacement ) .
if that one fails too , and i hope if it does , let it happen in the first 90 days , not later , cuz thats the warranty .
if it does , ill give up .
basically wat happened , is that the hard drive failed .
thats it .
i cant do anything about it , and i have to send back .
the only good thing about this whole process , is that im getting like a 34 dollar amount back , because of the price difference between when i bought it , and now .
basically u can see that i have given the player 3 stars , instead of 1 .
you know why ?
because other people that complain about this player are talking bull , this player is awesome , it just breaks fast , which is horrible .
now honestly , i love this player , but with all seriousness , i would not recommend it to other people , because of the breakdown flaw. and i honestly would not recomment the people of the ipod , that crap sucks big donkey ..... never mind .
i hope my next player doesnt breakdown . .
honestly , the best players without any flaws were the goddam cd players .
this is all i have to say .
what a junk .
every time nomad thinks the file is corrupt the os freezes .
the only way to recover is to plug the power cord and go into recovery mode .
so if you happen to be out of the house and you have a frozen os you can 't use nomad until you get home .
after os froze twice on me in the subway i returned the jukebox .
the reviews of this product can be roughly divided into two groups : ( 1 ) those who have had the product for a few weeks and ( 2 ) those have had the product for a few months .
those who have had the nomad for a few weeks are mostly thrilled with it .
the price is way below an ipod of the same size .
the nomad is only sligtly larger than an ipod .
the sound quality is very good .
the controls are somewhat harder to use , and there are some oddities about the software tagging system , but most people can live with this .
because of the large capacity of the nomad , owners can load hundreds of cds on to it .
for most people , they can carry around all or almost all of their music collection .
having access to so much music where ever you go is terrific .
they fall in love with the product .
and then it breaks .
usually around the time the 90 day warranty expires .
typically , the problem is the headphone jack -- it was for me and many others .
the nomad is sent back to creative labs .
they decide that the owner was responsible for the damage and so even if it is returned within the warranty period , creative will charge you to fix it .
in my case , the bill was $ 81 , about a third of what i paid for it .
like many others , i had not abused the product , and had tried to take care of it .
if my level of care was n't good enough , i had to expect that even if i paid to have it fixed it would break again in a month or two .
i 'm convinced by my own experience and that of many other people who have posted here who have had the same experience that the product is defectively designed , and will not hold up to normal use .
the headphone jack seems to be a major problem .
the one other thing i observed while i had the nomad is that the front cover , which is taken off to have access to the battery , seemed to come undone very easily .
the headphone jack failure seems to occur just about when the warrranty period is to expire .
even if it has n't expired , creative is likely to claim that the owner caused the damage which in turn voids the warranty .
and most stores will not take back a product 90 days after purchase .
this means that you will have the nomad long enough to load a lot of music on to it , and get used to having it .
so when it breaks , as it will , you will find yourself very disappointed and depressed at the loss of the nomad .
you will find it very hard or impossible to get you money back .
you will have a very expensive paperweight .
there are not a lot of good options out there .
most people say buy an ipod , but they are pretty expensive and also require you to send the product back to the factory just to replace the battery .
my suggestion is to wait to see how the market develops .
maybe creative will come out with a better design , although it will be hard for me and its other customers to trust it again .
maybe more competitors will bring out similar products .
and maybe the answer is to buy an ipod .
whatever you do , do n't buy this product .
you will be sorry if you do .
i am a soldier serving in baghdad right now .
i bought the nomad when i went home on leave and it worked great for about a month .
the other day when i was listening to a song , it locked up and will not do anything now .
it says i have a harddisk problem .
and since i 'm out here i can 't mail it back under my 90 days and they wo n't help me out cause they say that the conditions here are not covered under the warranty .
it worked good for a while .
it did lock up on me a couple of times .
and then it just froze and now i 'm out $ 300 for their piece of junk .
i first bought a 6 gig nomad jukebox ( original ).
unfortunatly it was dropped and damaged a year after i bought it .
the batteries would not charge .
so i took it back to best buy where i bought it and exchanged it for a newer zen 20 gig model .
in that model the hard drive just died one morning before my class .
it 's nothing major , just a bad hard drive , any hard drive mp3 player can have that problem .
so rule of thumb , no matter what you end up buying , get the extended warranty !
it always pays off .
hope i 've been of some help .
The world of MP3 players is blinding, and since most people don't understand the technology [myself included], user-friendliness is EXTREMELY IMPORTANT.
Unfortunately, Creative offered scant few pages of instruction, which meant that I was on own from the outset.
After attempting to navigate the clumsy touch-pad system, I could not get the unit to download my wma files.
When most of us purchase these little devises, we do so because of their diminuitive size and extraordinary storage capacities.
SO, YOU MIGHT INQUIRE, WHY DON'T THEY MAKE IT A FIRST PRIORITY TO CAREFULLY, SIMPLY EXPLAIN HOW DOWNLOAD MUSIC FROM YOUR MUSIC LIBRARY TO THEIR DEVICE??? This seems academic to me.
Most of us just want to plug and play, not spend a year navigating a maze of complicated options...like transfering everything on a hard drive to this stupid thing.
I don't care what ELSE it can do.
I just want MUSIC to eminate from it when I want, how I want.
All of this said [as it's on it's way back to Amazon], the one song it did include provided far better sound than the IPOD.
The base was deeper and the highs were crisper.
Unfortunately, the touch-pad issues [non-intuitive] and poor instruction guide killed it.
Why get locked in to crappy Itunes weather you want to or not?
what a kick butt Mp3 machine and the freedom to get songs from a reasonable source, instead of paying for them two or three times, then get the Creative Zen IPOD killer, kiss my ass Itunes!
i got 6000 mp3's you'll never register or gay up.
Two days after writing this review below, I want to remove another two stars.
I just discovered another con in my list of pros and cons.
This one is particularly bothersome: Allegedly one can use the Zen Micro as a portable drive to store and transport data from one computer to another.
Ahhh! There is a catch, the manufacturer does not tell you.
Although you can store any type of file on the Zen Micro to download onto a different computer, you need to INSTALL (on the computer you are moving the data to) Zen Micro software and drivers to do it!!!
I just tried to move a load of plain data files from my home computer to my office work computer, and it is promting me to install Zen Micro software, etc....
I have used similar devices and they are seamless and simple.
Who wants to go through the hassles of loading software onto a "foreign" computer just to move over some simple (*.txt) files?
This brings my review to one star!
But Amazon won't allow me to reduce the number of stars once I have already established three two days ago.
The sound is great, the portability, etc... all the "stuff" you expect from a good MP-3 player, this Zen Micro has it.
It COULD have been a great product.
Why isn't it?
Read the next six mixed pros and cons: .
1.
) Button sensitivity: Even reduced to the lowest sensitivity setting, the buttons are far two sensitive, really takes some getting use to, and even then, it is still too sensitive.
The company has received thousands of complaints about this and refuses to do anything about it. .
2.
) WORST FEATURE POSSIBLE, THIS ALONE MAKES IT RATE ONE STAR: What's up with no recharge cord?
You have to purchase that separately for some outrageous cost.
If you want to recharge it, you MUST connect it to your computer.
The recharge cord will do the job in a fraction of the time that the USB cable will hooked to your computer.
I took my Zen Micro with me over the weekend, and was forced to lug my laptop with me on the trip for one reason: to keep the Zen Micro charged.
Infuriating! Nearly all other MP-3 producing companies include a recharging cord with their product that can be plugged into a wall socket.
If you want a wall-socket recharging cord, you have to dish out somewhere between $30 and $35, plus shipping and handling, for a cord that cost less than $1 to manufacture and market.
I have trashed this product on other opinion sites based on this major flaw alone.
What is up with nickle and dimeing consumers on the recharge cord?
Buy from another company and run from Creative, Inc.
Their product may appear more enconomical, but it isn't in the long run. .
3.
) Creative, Inc. the maker includes the barest of the bare minimum in the box, then through gross profiteering nickles and dimes you on EVERY single accessory at extraordinarily inflated prices.
The box included a little polyester, pull-string BAG, (yes, you read right a BAG, something a boy would carry ten marbles in) and tries to pass it off as the case.
If you want to purchase a real case or container or clip-on carrier for you Zen Micro, expect to purchase it separately and to dish out big time. .
4.
) One outstanding positive feature is the battery. It holds a charge for a long time, longer than most other similar products and the user can replace it easily or take another along as a backup.
Some other companies require you to send your player back and then charge you an additional $130 to replace their batteries.
Creative did well on its rechargeable battery feature. .
5.
) I purchased this device primarily to record off the built-in FM receiver for lectures and seminars that are broadcast live over a FM signal for the hearing impaired.
The Zen Micro FM receiver is ok, not great.
IRiver has a better FM receiver built in, but the drawback to IRiver products is they are flimsy and poorly constructed.
I have gone through two of them in two years. .
6.
) The Zen Micro appears sturdy and well constructed, hefty, if you will, far better than many of its competitors. .
As I wrote, this COULD have been a great product, but expect hidden charges (read gross profiteering and price gouging) as the company royally sticks you on every conceivable accessory necessary for normal daily usage.
Well, I have an Ipod mini - and I really like it, but all in all, I like the Zen Micro more.
  Why?
Smaller size, 1 gb of more space, radio, voice recording, removable battery, cooler look, all in one.
The touchpad is annoying sometimes (give me the click-wheel and pressable buttons any day), but not at all as difficult to get over as other people are saying.
I love how small the thing is, and the blue glow - I've had it for two weeks with no electronic problems at all.
Creative Media Source is very easy to use once you get the hang of it, and the file transfers are fast.
Sound quality is great, fm tuner is fine, as is the recorder.
This is the mp3 player with everything I need.  As long as it lasts me a good three years, I'm satisfied.
I am one of the many people who (a) are PC Based and (b) can't stand to see the multitudes of people with those funky white headphones that belong to Ipod users.
This proprietory software to download.
(That was a major turn off).
I am the type of person that will always go against the masses of blind followers so there was no way I was getting an Ipod.
Also If you want a device that does soo much more than the Ipod mini but is at the same price, this is the player for you.
The reason why I didn't give the Zen Micro 5 stars is that they also seem to want to conform the the Ipod sense of style.
and supply those stupid white Headphones.
I also think that if you are going to offer them in different colors then commit all the way and have the entire device in that color, not just the front and color the head phones as well.
Let's face it.
Apple is Apple.
So Creative should be "Creative".
I've been looking for a portable MP3 player for awhile now.
With so many choices it was a tough decision.
My first instinct was to go with an iPod.
I visited quite a few forums and while the iPod is a great player I was concerned with the battery life and the inability to change them without breaking open the case.
I started looking at the Creative Zen Micro and after reading numerous reviews from message boards and magazines I decided I'd give the Zen a try.
All I can say is what a wonderful choice!
I ordered from Amazon and got the Limited Edition package that includes a free battery!
Upon opening the box I was confronted with this small cute little MP3 player.
I popped one of the batteries in and to my surprised it started right up.
The software included is an easy installation and you have the option of using the Creative software, Windows Media Player 10, or simply Windows Explorer to move music back and forth between your Zen Touch.
I did a quick test by selecting a few files and copying them over and they loaded right in.
Pressed play and I was off.
The touch pad does take a little getting used to.
I'm still trying to manage the thing myself, but I've found that if you put the sensitivity to low it is fine.
The package also comes with a USB cable, an AC adapter, a pair of headphones (they're okay until you get a better pair), a stand, and a microfiber pouch to carry your Zen Touch in.
Overall I'm incredibly impressed with my new Zen Touch.
It's cute as anything and the glowing blue LED looks super cool around the edges.
For the price I think this is a remarkably fun MP3 player.
Enjoy!
I've had this player for more than 4 months and I'm very happy with it.
I use it on an average 5 hours a day I hook it up to my Belkin FM transmitter in the car or to my Logitech 2.
1 Speakers at home,I rarely use it with the earbuds, though they are much better than the ones you normally get with other mp3 players.
The Look & Feel: I have the black one and the contrasting neon blue on the buttons add a very nice ambience.
The light pulsates when you are charging it almost as if it were breathing.
The player itself is tiny , it gets a bit bulky when you put it in the hardcase, which you need to do if you don't want to get scrathes on the back(its a nice looking back too ).
It feels tiny in the hand without it.
The stand that comes with it is very useful to prop it up on the desk.
The belt clip however is not very useful if you move around a lot.
The blue backlit LCD looks really neat and is easy to read.
The touch controls took a little getting used to but now I wouldn't change it for the scroll wheel.
The touch buttons are textured so that your finger sdon't slip which was very thoughtful.
Reliability & Build  I dropped the player once from about 4 ft, and it fell hard, but kept on playing.
The hardcase they give with it must work well.
It feels solid and not flimsy like the carbon.
Sound  I'm no audiophile but I was amazed by the clarity the player had, it was much better than the sound card on my Computer and louder too.
I have had the ipod mini and it performs on the level with my sound card but the micro beats it outright.
Best of all the WMAs(I have a lot of them) sound great.
Utility Its got a huge list of features including an FM Recorder a Calender and contacts list.
Its not convinient to enter name of course but synchronise it with outlook and it becomes a gem of a address book.
The songs recorded with FM are as good as the original signal.
The interface takes 2 secs after you press record to show up but its actually started recording at the moment you press record.
Software The software that comes along with it is not very intuitive but once you are used to it,it  does the job well.
Creating and modifying playlists is easy and clean.
There are 2 things that need fixing  First is the battery life. It will run for 6 hrs without problems with medium usage of the buttons.
Second might be a problem I might have with my PC but not too sure, when the player is connected on the USB and I start playing on it and also using the windows explorer, it sometimes pauses by itself and tries to synchronise with the PC during play, which is a bit irritating.
I think that for its price compared to the ipod the creative zen is pretty good.
i have a lot of files in wma so that was the biggest factor in my decision to purchase the zen.
HOWEVER after just one month my headphone jack was BROKEN as a result of normal, every-day use.
by broken i mean that it would no longer transmit sound.
The good news is that the creative support is very responsive and after some emails and postal exchanges, i had a new zen.
i havent used it much yet so i dont know if i will have the same problem; obviously i hope not.
i dont especially like how music files are unstructured; basically they are just dumped into one folder with no organization, like you might have in windows explorer folders and subfolders.
in principle playlists, album names, artist names, etc would help you organize but this only works IF your tracks have all the necessary data; mine do not.
and if you have 2500 songs, as you might very well, you will be reluctant to edit the clip properties of 2500 files.
the sound is quite good, in terms of volume.
the headphones are not very comfortable, but most people have a certain style they like so just go buy new ones or keep the ones you have.
i didnt have any installation problems; and the touch pad is fine, even if it is sort of inaccurate.
you just get used to it after a while.
i didnt get ipod because i dont especially like itunes (no music i want, but thats just me) and the creative product was cheaper; and i needed to be able to use WMA files.
all-in-all, its good enough for its price as long as it doesnt break again due to normal use.
This is a difficult player to review because I would recommend it on a case-by-case basis.
If you're not computer savvy or if you want things as simple as they can be, get the iPod.
Bottom line.
However, since you're reading this review, you want to avoid getting an iPod.
For whatever reason. There is also a low number of people, like me, who love iTunes but want to get the Zen Micro.
I'll talk more about that later.
First of all, why does every single piece of media library software that comes with an MP3 player suck?
(iTunes being an exception of course).
The Creative MediaSource software that comes with the Zen Micro is cluttered, and excludes my favorite feature in iTunes, the ability to automatically copy everything you import into a certain folder.
I like to keep all of my Mp3s in one folder and manually doing this is a pain.
Bottomline, don't even bother with the software that comes with the Zen Micro.
NAGATIVES of the Player itself:  You need to do a little work before having full enjoyement of this player.
1.
Set the sensitivity of the touch pad to LOW.
Also, as soon as you select a song and set your desired volume level, put the player on HOLD.
Even on the LOW sensitivy level, a slight touch can skip or pause the track.
2.
Update the firmware which can be found on the Creative web site.
This fixes some glitches such as the player freezing.
POSITIVES:  Reasons for getting the Zen Micro instead of the iPod:  1.
The battery is removable.
You can buy a new battery for 49.99.
With the iPod, if the battery has reached it's life span (after about a year), and you didn't buy the warranty from the store, you need to buy a NEW player.
 2.
 FM radio built in (Howard Stern).
3.
Record memos using the built in microphone.
4.
The player looks SO much better when you're actually holding it.
The photos don't do it justice.
The back of the player is nice too, with water ripples inside the clear white coating.
5.
You can use it as a storage Hard Drive.
Now, about the iTunes.
I have no problem using iTunes with the Zen Micro (in a makeshift sorta way).
This is what I do:  I copy all the music I want to import to the Zen Micro into an iTunes play list.
After that, you connect your Zen Micro and open My Computer.
Click on "Zen Micro Media Explorer" and then click on "Transfer Data Between PC and Device" after that, a File Explorer window opens.
And all you do is select all the tracks in the iTunes playlist and drag them to the File Explorer window.
It's not as seamless as if you were to use an iPod, but it only takes a few seconds longer.
So yeah, you can have the best of both worlds.
* Of Course, if you've BOUGHT tracks from iTunes, this won't work.
You can only copy songs you've downloaded for free or ripped from a CD.
**I honestly don't see the point of buying songs from iTunes when there are so many free alternatives.
But if you get that "fuzzy legal feeling" from paying for songs, at least buy them from allofmp3.com, there are no restrictions and the songs cost pennies.
I'm addicted to music.
I'm also somewhat of an audiophile.
Mp3 players are like a blessing and a curse for people like me.
On the one hand, you have the ability to store and plays over 1000 songs on one little piece of machine.
On the other hand, you get terrible sound quality.
I decided to go with the convienence factor and purchase a creative zen micro.
I was at [random electronic store], browsing through players, and came across two that made the cut.
The first was an ipod 5gb (I could kick myself for not buying it), and the other was a creative 5gb.
The creative came with a free trial of [random file sharing company] "to go".
So that's the one I bought.
Too bad.
First thing I noticed was that the creative wasn't well made.
One drop from a pocket or desktop, and it'd be a goner.
 Problems with the sound quality were evident right away, but even I couldn't imagine they'd be that bad.
The eq is awful, and even at top volumes, the bass is flat sounding.
Cranking the master volume level up past the mark of the bar only leads to distortion and compromised sound quality.
The headphone jack gave out after only a couple weeks of use, and the stock earbuds were replaced same day with some high end sony's I'd been having.
They didn't really make any difference.
I also experimented with an adapter for the car.
If you've been listening to cd's in your car for awhile, dealing with the drop-off in sound quality may take some getting used to.
However, if there was one thing I liked about the creative, it would be the car adapter.
Hands down, better quality than ipod's.
that isn't saying much, but hey, I like to be positive.
Even after all the nightmare sound problems, I'd still half-way like this product if it kept it's promise; the ability to store 1500 songs.
I got about 700 loaded up before it told me I was full, and at that point, I was ready to toss it out the window.
If you do not care about sound/music quality in the least, and don't mind the ability to store 800 songs less than promised, get the creative zen micro.
My friend has an ipod, and although the sound quality probably won't meet most audiophile standards, the product itself is better than anything creative has made.
features[-][u][cc]It hold's a promised amount of songs, and the headphone jack/volume controls deliver a more impressive performance than creative's.
If you're an audiophile, you already know that mp3 players are far from impressive.
player[-][s]However, this one makes an ipod sound like your old LP's, so even if you're a casual listener, I'd advise that you avoid the purchase of this product. Terrible.
I bought this two months ago at a local retailer, after spending considerable time reading reviews here of this and other 5GB players.
While they all seem to have their own positives and negatives, I picked the Zen Micro over the Ipod mini, because I am not an Apple person, never has been - I wanted something that is fully compatible with Windows Media Player.
Also, the WMA compression format is superior to MP3, especially at lower bit rates, so I needed a player that could handle WMA and integrate well with my Windows XP computers.
I was fortunate to get the packaging that still included all the accessories (desk stand/hard case, belt clip, wall charger, etc).
And so far, I have been very, very happy with my Zen Micro.
It's being used daily and I have had none of the problems reported by other reviewers (headphone jack, player locking up, etc).
Just in case, I bought a two-year extended warranty for about 15% of the purchase price of the player.
I promptly gave the included earbuds to my wife, I'm using a pair of Sennheiser PXC250 noise-canceling headphones with the Zen Micro.
The Micro has an impressive array of very nice features and a well designed user interface.
What I like the most:  - Small and solid feel.
The Zen Micro is smaller than it looks in pictures, and feels very solid.
The blue backlight is pretty cool.
The screen is clear and readable, and the touch pad works very well, it took me less than a day to get the hang of it, and now I like it better than having to click buttons or fiddle with a separate volume control.
- Great sound! I was very impressed, I encode at 192 kbps and the audio quality is great, especially with the better headphones.
I managed to fit about 700 tracks on the player, but many of those are 6-15 minute long classical tracks.
- Integration with Media Player.
The first thing I did was upgrade the firmware to the version required for WMP10, it syncs flawlessly with Media Player and transfers are fast.
- Replaceable battery.
A must for me, the fact that you can carry extra batteries is a big bonus.
- The FM Radio.
I find myself listening to the radio a lot.
You have to be in an area with good reception, but where I live I can get most of my favorite stations quite well.
- Doubles as a removable disk drive.
With the right firmware, drag and drop to and from the player like any other jump drive.
I have not yet used all the features, like the calendar, etc, but as a music player this little thing rocks.
The only reason for not giving it 5 stars: the claimed battery life of 12 hours is very optimistic - possible maybe if you really sit down and listen continuously for 12 hours without ever touching the player, but in real life I can probably get 6-8 hours at most.
Plus, from the Creative discussion forums it is clear that they have some problems with excessive battery drainage with the current firmware.
They seem to be working on a fix and will probably sort it out soon.
For me, I get through a typical day's listening just fine, and I could probably squeeze out two days, but it really is no big deal to just charge the Micro overnight.
Even the "shorter" battery life, though, has not impaired my positive experience with the Zen Micro in any way.
If you can get one with all the accessories and a cheap extended warranty, this is the player to get! Highly recommended.
Update 8/11/05:  The latest release of the iPOD firmware fixes teh calender sync bug i noted below.
I bought this a couple of months ago after researching all the reviews comparing with the iPod mini.
The Micro seeemed like an iPod for less.
I got rid of my older PDA figuring that since the only function I used on it anyways was to manage my contacts and calender, I could now use my Zen Micro.
Pros: - Excellent sound, even with the headphones that come out of the box, but it absolutely rocked with my Bose Quietcomfort 2 set.
- Looks sleek, compact, has a radio.
Limitations: - Not a lot of original accessories like the iPod.
I waited for Creative's FM transmitter for a month, finally bought a Belkin Tunecast II, which is not great.
I get occasional hiss while driving.
- The battery life leaves a lot to be desired.
 Though rated at 12 hrs, I could barely manage 8 and I have two spares as well.
I downloaded the new firmware which was supposed to take care of the problem, but it hasn't worked.
- The outlook synch only works for non recurring appointments, which personally is very annoying to me but probably wont be to most people. -
I occassionally flip songs while working out as i accidently hit the pad even lightly (yes i have it in maximum desensitized mode).
I wish they has a "lock" function like cell phones to prevent this.
- Not compatible with Audible.com books.
Overall, it does its basic function very well, but we expect more from the mp3 players today and the Zen Micro does not rise to the occassion.
I first signed up for Napster on line.
Loved the service so much I decided to buy an MP3 player and upgrade from the basic Napster to Napster To Go.
They have a list of compatible players which I miss read.
So my first MP3 player purchase was incorrect.
To transfer songs requires you to pay 99 cents.
The player I first purchased was the Creative Nomad Jukebox Zen Xtra 40 GB MP3 Player.
This player is not compatible with Napster To Go.
The player was large and bulky.
The buttons are located on the sides making it difficult to use.
The plus was the storage size but I didn't like hearing the hard drive spin.
I also hated the packaging, with a passion.
It was one of those plastic glued containers that can take you thirty minutes to open.
Accessories were cheap looking.
The player was not very appealing either.
All this before I found out the bad news.
Finally I upgraded the firmware and log in to Napster.
Upon logging in I received a notification that my player works with Napster but not Napster To Go.
It was time to exchange it for the other player the Creative Zen Micro 5 GB MP3 Player Black.
Its a few bucks more and has only 5 GB's of storage but its well worth the trade off.
This is Creative's attempt to compete with the IPod mini.
To bad Napster software is not compatible with Apple IPod's.
Its my first purchase choice.
Actually only three players are on the list for Napster To Go.
Don't worry this player rocks.
It was also the most appealing.
Immediately you could tell a very distinct difference between the two Creative MP3 players.
For the Zen Creative focused on packaging which looked well thought out, well presented and easy to open and put back together.
I keep boxes for all my equipment for storage and moving.
It has a cardboard slip cover with a nice layered box casing inside.
 You will find a small folder/envelope on top along with the player.
Accessories are in reusable bags unlike the Nomad which requires you to tear each back plastic store bag open.
A distinct IPod relation is evident with white colored cables, power plug and the very nice Zen case with a white rubber inside covering.
It has Apple insipid written all over it.
I do give create to Creative for their attractive design.
Creative has put a lot of effort into making this player appeal to those true geeks that search for coolness and functionality in electronic devices.
Creative was defiantly giving the IPod a run for their money with this device.
It makes the Nomad I purchase feel and look like junk.
Everything shines of quality.
I was more excited about this player upon opening than I was about the Nomad.
First I removed each piece and laid them out on my coffee table.
I am now staring at an array of stuff including Zen Micro player, stereo earbud headphones, a rechargeable lithium-ion battery, an AC/DC power adapter, a USB 2.0 cable, a belt-clip, a stand, a stylish cloth pouch, an installation CD, a quick-start guide, and Creative MediaSource software.
Next I wanted to update the software, after a quick firmware upgrade the player was ready to go.
I sync the player with Napster software and it downloaded the library I had already created.
My PC only supports USB 1.0 not the 2.0 which is blazing fast.
So the download was much slower.
The interface works great.
I enjoy getting use to the touch pad.
In minutes I was easily navigating through the menus.
What impressed me most was the sound.
At 128 the songs sound very good.
My hobby is home audio and home theater.
The Zen lives up to the audio quality I love and expect.
The Earbuds are great headphones as good as my AGK Studio 240, well not as good but darn close.
Creative says that the software engine for this MP3 is the best hands down.
I believe them.
Overall this play is my introduction into the market.
The Zen was an impressive purchase and I would highly recommend it to anyone using Napster.
If you're an itunes person then no one could argue against an IPod.
I got my Zen Micro last week.
I absolutely love it.
It's so small.
It looks sleek and modern.
It holds plenty of songs.
The sound is amazing.
The menu is easy to use and understand.
I love the touchpade controls.
They're easy to use.
The radio and voice recording are nice.
The earbud headphones are really nice.
The battery has a long life.
It's rechargable and supposedly easy to replace though I haven't had to do it yet of course.
The file ripping/transfering software that comes with the player is easy to use.
It's faster than WMP.
So far I have no complaints with this player.
If anyone is thinkning of getting an ipod mini, forget it and go with this player.
It's cheaper, holds more songs and is smaller.
If you are like me who wants move to the next phase of portable audio from conventional portable CD players I hope you find this usefull.
Space : 5GB =2500 songs.
If you have a huge CD collection, 5GB can hold only a part of your CD collection.
Remember mp3 format lets you store tons of songs.
I have stored 40 audio CDs and i still have close to 2.8 GB free.
User Interface: The software is simple and straight forward.
Havent read the manual till now (remember I am good time computer user).
PC software that comes with the player is not as simple as i Tunes but its not bad at all.
The scrol bar agian takes some getting used to.
You can use the player to store your computer data files (Good feature to have).
Battery : A Big Big plus.
Most of the other players I checked dont have user servicable battery.
Zen micro does.
I have two spare batteries (brought on ebay for 28 bucks each).
Remember this is a huge plus when travelling.
Each battery lasts about 10-11 hours.
If one battery drains just snap the spare one and you are back in bussiness.
Another good feature is that you can charge the battery by just connecting the player to your computer using the USB cable.
FM tuner & Microphone : Having a tuner in the player is a blessing.
Dont have to switch to another device for FM tuner.
Since zen does not have an external antena it has some problems catching weak signals but it works.
Builtin microphone is great for recording short voice notes.
I have heard in other players these have to be brought separately.
Sound: This is where I love Zen the most.
Excellent sound I mean the player has juice.
I dont use the headphones that come with it instead I use Bose Triport headphones.
The player has great potential (ur experiance may differ based on your headphones).
The bass treble the sound detail is awsome.
I compared it to other CD players (Two models of Panasonic, Rio & samsung) and they were no way even near Zen Micro.
Looks and shape: I have a black one and the first time I charged it and switched it on jeez the blue light looked so cool.
Its compact and has rounded edges.
Fits well in hand in trouser pockets.
Freebies you get: A cradle with detachable stand and belt clip, some thing very handy and useful.
I dont use the belt clip cuz it fails to hold the player securely (design problem).
Instead I use a cellphone cover with a belt clip and it works just fine.
You get a USB cable headphones, a pouch, software except headphones you will like every thing else.
What I dont like: Nothing much except Headphones, Belt clip design.
Creative has not lounched any silicon cover for the player like ipod's (I think belkin makes it for ipod).
Stuff you may need to buy: Wired remote from creative.
This is a must have.
Spare batteries incase  you need some extra hours without charging.
FM transmitter (belkin has a good one) to use Zen with your car Sterio FM Tunner   Latest Find: Connected this baby to my $3800 audiophile audio system and it produced clean sound compared to Ipod.
Tested with the same mp3 for benchmarking
I can't help but feel peeved by the attitude created by Apple enthusiasts that basically detracts from anything that attempts to compete with Apple products in the marketplace.
Thankfully, Creative has come through with a product that puts the Ipod back in its place.
While I have not had the "privilege", as many call it, of owning an Ipod, based on the experience of friends who have had some misfortune with their Ipod (and subsequently purchased the Zen Touch or Zen Micro), I can pretty much rest assured that my decision to purchase the Zen Micro was one of the more informed ones.
Nevertheless, I still get shirked when someone out of ignorance states "But it's not an IPod!" or "Never heard of it, I'll go with the IPod".
_  About the hype:  I must applaud Creative for their restraint.
By focusing exclusively on quality rather than excessive marketing, they have introduced a player that can look the Ipod straight in the eye and not flinch.
While I'm not too keen on their customer service (none of the products I have from Creative have given me issues), I can definitely recommend the Zen Micro for the simple fact that it does exactly what it is supposed to do and more...without needing any of the extra hype except word of mouth.
Apple, on the other hand, seems to have engaged in a blind marketing strategy that seeks to obliterate competition through utter abuse of marketing channels and un-orthodox "free player" schemes that just seem to pimp the product without pimping the features.
The result, while naturally encompassing the acquisition of greater market share, is a mediocre product that stands out sorely in terms of quality and value when compared in a virtual vacuum to its competitors.
About the product:  The Zen Micro is a sleek, stylish device that caters not just to "hip" youngsters but to people of all walks of life who like to listen on the go without having to worry frequently about battery life, size, or the "awkward" factor.
It fits comfortably in my shirt pocket and while very well-designed, doesn't look to ostentatious while I'm walking around with it.
The interface, while a bit confusing at first, is very easy to navigate after about 15 minutes.
Battery life is exceptional, lasting longer than the 8-10 hours that seem reasonable with most music players on the market.
Transferring files couldn't be easier thanks to the included software bundle.
Also, I am quite partial to the Creative MediaSource Organizer and Player software, which I had with Audigy ZS sound card originally; it is definitely an added plus.
All-in-all, Creative has definitely come up with a winner in terms of product design and features, and I look forward to the Nomad/Zen line of products seizing more market share as people begin to realize that quality is a better determinant of experience than quantity and hype.
P.S.  The only snag I encountered while initially configuring the device was trying to hook up the Micro to a front USB port.  The bus for the front port on my motherboard did not have enough power; after connecting it to the rear ports, it works perfectly.
This device looks pretty nice but it's really not very competitive.
The iPod mini is smaller and sexier, albeit limited in supported formats and the Rio Karma is a far better value.
The karma is only $5 more, it's small, had a 20 gig drive and supports more formats including ogg.
The karma doesn't look as sexy but it's interface is very efficiently designed.
In fact, it's much better than the iPod in that regard.
The karma also has a very long battery life.
Having owned both the karma and other Creative Lab products (including Zen) I would have to say the Karma also sounds better.
No comparison in my opinion.
Initially, I was very impressed, after loading 180 songs it seemed to function very well but then it would lock up on me and a battery removal remedied this, I then downloaded the upgrades and everything seemed to be alright.
After a week I tried to load some more songs and delete a few but the auto load didn't do anything but turn on my player.
I tried to figure out another way to load the songs and attempted another upgrade with no results.
I emailed the company and after 2 days was told to read their Q&A site and then download again.
I tried the help menu that referenced GUI buttons that don't exist on my version.
I'm less than satisfied.
It seems like the software is just not responding.
The support has been less than impressive, considering the cost.
They responded -after I told them I have a Zen Micro and suggested that my "jukebox" needed to be purged.
I'm going to try to get a refund but considering all the hoops I jumped through (emails, downloads, reboots, a purge and another download, plus reading through the help menu) a refund should be twice as frustrating.
After narrowing my choices down to the Zen Micro or IPod Mini, I read countless reviews on both for about a week until my eyes practically started bleeding.
I really like both of them and as with any other popular products, they both have their share of negative reviews warning of their shortcomings.
When I finally couldn't take it anymore, I decided to pull the trigger on the Zen Micro.
The extra GB of hardrive space, removeable battery and FM tuner, as well as the fact that I was previously a satisfied owner of the Nomad II put it over the top for me.
Not to mention that everyone else at the office has an IPod, so I was kinda' hoping for a good alternative.
Fortunately for me, I have yet to have a single problem with this player.
After reading the reviews, I was all ready for the unit to lock up on me after the initial charge...but it never happened.
I think the OS and controls are very well thought out and although I'll admit I was a bit intimidated during my first few hours with the Micro, the interface and controls became second nature after the first day or so.
My preference for the touchpad sensitivity setting is 'medium'.
One reviewer made what *I thought* was a good point about the volume not having an independant control and being buried in a menu, but must not have spent very long with the player because if you slide your finger up or down the center touch button during a song, the volume goes up or down accordingly.
A few reviewers have also complained about the printed manual which is probably one of the biggest wastes of paper ever included with an electronic device.
However, there is a more detailed PDF manual on the CD (and online) that should answer any questions about the operational features of the Zen Micro.
While the software may not be as easy as I-Tunes, it is not difficult to use by any stretch.
As opposed to the Nomad II or any other flash based player, the songs load extremely fast...about one or two seconds per song.
I also like the fact that you can edit your MP3 titles, etc.
after they have been loaded into the Zen which is something I've had to do many times already.
After comparing the included Creative earbuds directly against my Sony MD-E828LP's and Sennheiser MX-400's, I find myself still using the Creative's, which in my opinion, sound every bit as good and have a slightly longer cord.
If I was pressed to find a negative aspect of the Zen Micro I would probably have to mention weak FM reception, but the building where I primarily use the Micro seems to have a history of terrible radio reception anyway, so you can take that for what it's worth.
Zen Micro[+2][s] Overall, I'm very pleased with the Zen Micro and based on my experience with it (as well as it's older sibling Creative Nomad IIC), can recommend it without reservation.
I say get one today!!
It had issues right off the bat, with freezing up, staying in 'SHUTTING DOWN' mode, and just not functioning very well in general.
The touch-pad would be a great thing if it worked well, and as I never had issues getting songs transferred to the player, I did have problems accessing them from the player.
Many other reviewers are mentioning that they have had no problems at all> I would say that the main problem is that this player is just not made very well.
It is the 'first generation' of the player, and while I still agree that it is a great alternative to the iPod, I think there are many others that would be a much better value for your buck.
If someone asked me flat out, i'd say to go with something else.
After heavy duty research and reading reviews, I decided to plunge into the MP3 player circus and got myself the Zen Micro.
Why not join the iPodders like the rest of the world?
I have my reasons.
I've played around with a friend's iPod a couple times and it IS a cool unit.
Perhaps I bought the Micro to be different, the cheaper price tag (from Amazon), the design, or avoiding the high iPod theft in NYC subways.
Whichever it may be, I'm happy I've made this purchase.
I waited a week to make the Micro worthy of a review.
When I opened the box, I was shocked by the size of this thing... It's TINY!
It's shorter, sleeker, more compact and fits comfortably in my small hand than the iPod...My Nokia cell phone towers over this bad boy!
The interface has a sassier flair and the blue-lit trimming is an added bonus.
The iPods,like most Mac products, have a sophisticated but bland, look to them... Preferrably, I like some sass.
:) I was also happy that my shipment came with all the accessories (minus extra battery).
In stores, the Micro doesn't even come with the AC adapter.
Moving on to sound department... It delivers!
I expected this coming from Creative.
The earbuds, on the other hand, are decent in sound, but lacking in bass.
I've since replaced it with a pair of black Sennheisers... Not only are the packaged earbuds pretty uncomfortable, but are too similar to iPod's and can target iPod theives here in NYC.
Functionality, menus are easy to navigate... As many have mentioned, the touch pads take some time to get used to, but I've gotten used to it.
I actually prefer the vertical strip rather than running my thumb in continuous circular motion.
Although, I thought it could've been designed a bit better.
There are extra features packed inside this unit (some that most will hardly ever use) such as FM radio tuner, voice recorder, calendar, and alarm clock.
I'm guessing the more features you enable, the more the battery will drain.
Speaking of battery, it's removable AND replaceable!
The life-span on it, though, is NOT as advertised, but if you're not a heavy user, you can tick in at 9-10 hours of playback.
And if you read the description on Creative's site, it does mention that the "actual battery life will vary with use."
Overall, the Micro is a solid device and I haven't fell into a problem with it yet *knocks on wood*.
It's perfect for those who aren't planning on storing tons of music.
Transferring music is a breeze. I don't subscribe to music services, but as mentioned on other reviews, Micro allows you to subscribe to services OTHER than iTunes.
It may not top the iPod Mini, but it's definitely an alternative if you also want the extra features and good sound quality.
Strong Points: - Design: small, comfortable, curved, and stylish.
You don't need to cough up an extra couple bucks for a "special edition" to get black! - Sound: Awesome! - Batteries: removable/replaceable.
- Audio Formats: supports both MP3, WMA... And yeah, WAV too.
Weak Points: - Touch Pad: design could be better - Volume Control: controlled through the vertical strip, but purchasing a headphone with built-in volume control will do the trick.
- Radio Quality: weak reception
It's nice that the Zen Micro has bells and whistles like FM (but where's AM???) and voice recording, and 20% more storage than "the other" mini MP3 player, but why is it so (...)ugly?
The colors are a joke, and I personally hate the stupid vertical touchpad.
But my biggest gripe is still the extremely ugly design.
What's the point of having "good audio" in your hand when your g/f thinks you have no taste whatsoever and your friends laugh their heads off while proudly showing off their iPod Mini?
Creative should hire some real industrial designers.
Still has terrible software.
You have to wonder why Creative can't get this right.
Looks nice but the conrols are awkward and the entire front is touch sensitive.
You do get 1 more GB than an iPod mini.
Screen review could be better.
Apple stil does it better but needs to come out with a 5 gig mini.
This product is amazing and better than the Ipod you can get at the same price.
the 4G Ipod costs the same as this 5G Zen Micro.
It also has a voice recorder and FM radio that you can only get on an Ipod if you but an adapter seperately.
Creative did an awesome job with the design.
The headphones have great sound and durability and mine came with some extras when I bought it (a stand, a belt hook, charger) that I know doesn't come with every one.
I have the black one and adore it.
It looks nice and sleek and the blue background light looks awesome against the black.
The touch buttons do take a little getting used to and I don't like how the scroll button is the same button used as an "enter" key, but you get used to it and it isn't a big deal.
I take mine everywhere.
I bought my Zen Micro three months ago mainly because I preferred the size and style to the iPod mini.
Overall, I've been very impressed with the player.
I've had almost no problems with the firmware (ie, lock-ups, shut-downs etc), but I have kept the player up to date.
Also, the latest version of the firmware seems to actual deliver (in fact, more than deliver) the 12 hour battery life the specifications claim.
Originally I was only getting around 8 hours of playtime out of my Zen Micro, but now I consistently get 10-13.
I'm not sure whether this is related to the charge cycle of its Li-Ion battery, the better firmware, or a combination of both factors.
I imagine if I left my player untouched (no backlight) it could play for considerably more than 12 hours at a low volume level.
One of my favorite features about the player is its ability to sync to Windows Media Player.
With the latest version (10), I can simply browse my WMP library, adding songs/albums/artists to the sync list, and then sync all of the tracks at any time.
Its just as fast as the included Creative software, but much less invasive, and overall better looking.
With WMP10, you don't need to install any software other than the driver, which makes using multiple computers fairly simple.
The touchpad is great once you get used to it, and I much prefer it to standard buttons or scroll wheels (as on the Dell DJ for example).
They are sensitive and accurate (perhaps too accurate, it senses through t-shirt cloth, but the touchpad can be locked), but easy to clean, unlike buttons.
Also, the touchpad seems to be waterproof to some degree.
The FM radio's reception isn't spectacular, but it will pick up the most powerful stations in any given metro area.
Its ability to record radio is useful as well, but would have been moreso if it could be preset.
The player looks great, feels great, and sounds great.
So far it has been very durable (other than the little pads on the earbuds), but those aren't really necessary as I find them comfortable on their own.
They also sound excellent compared to other earbuds including retail sets like Panasonics and Sennheisers.
I've dropped the device several times onto hard surfaces, and it still works flawlessly.
Every few years I crawl out into the electronic world, in search of a new MP3 player to replace the horribly inadequate one I currently own.
This year, it seems that I choose my timing perfectly, having discovered the awesome device that is the Zen Micro.
Of all the players that I have owned in the past (6 of them), all of them have had drawbacks and problems.
Although some came close to perfection, none of them left me completely happy with their performance.
To me, the key elements that must be present in an MP3 player are as follows:  -Fast transference of songs to player -Well-designed computer-side interface -Easy menu navigation and well-designed control scheme -Good sound (duh) -Reasonable battery time (~6 Hours)  That's it?
You ask, yup.
That's it.
I know this list is horribly unreasonable, which is why it amazes me how many players lack some of these basic features.
Slow file transfers, menus that take ages to cycle through, and poor battery life plague many of the!
players that are currently available, but not the Zen Micro.
My list of "nice to have" features is a little longer, but it also contains nothing unreasonable: backlit screen, removable battery, FM Radio feature, ID3 Tag line support, lots of storage.
Everything that I have listed above, the Zen has, and more.
The menus are easy to scroll through; they are laid out naturally, and make sense.
The computer interface is 90% good, only losing points due to the fact that "Creative" branding is all over the place within it.
Songs transfer lightning fast, and the two batteries that came in my box give me 24 hours of listen time.
On the fly play list creation, address book, removable storage drive capabilities, sound recorder, the list goes on people, this thing is literally so chalked full of goodies, it was like Halloween all over again.
So far I have used all of the above-mentioned features, and find them well designed, and easy to understand.
Not everything in this world is 1!
00% good though, and the Zen does have a few drawbacks.
While transferring songs to the player, the interface has crashed a few times (4-5 times in a 4-5 hour period) normally this would cause me major concern, but it appears that this bug is reproducible, which leads me to believe that Creative will fix it with a patched version shortly (or maybe it's just my computer).
Another thing I don't like is that some of the features take 1-2 seconds to load up.
These are limited to the voice recorder, address book, and such.
I will be using the player 99% of the time as an MP3 device, so these small pauses are entirely bearable, for the added features just to be available.
Really that's all I can find wrong with it, it took some major bouncing around to get a song to skip (there is a hard drive within), and I don't forsee jogging (wich I plan to do with it tonight) to cause any problems whatsoever (if it does, I'll update this).
That's it for now, what are you doing still reading this, click the "Add to Cart" button already!
UPDATE March 3rd, 2005: I bought my Dark Blue Zen Micro back in November, when they first came out.
Right out of the box, I loved it, better features than the Ipod, great sound quality and no limitations on what music sources I can use.
I loaded my whole CD collection on it and took it everywhere, even at work.
So, I was one who was ready to give it 5 stars with no complaints at all.
Then last week, my player just quit working, period.
After consulting with Creative's customer support, they determined that the hard drive was broken and the only recourse was to send it in for repair, which would cost me $40, since it's past the 90 day warranty (pretty short warranty).
They said the repair could take weeks, and being impatient, I decided to just order another one, 1 day delivered from Amazon, and then I could have two, one for at work and one for at home.
Well, I got my second player, and right out of the box it wasn't working right and once again, after consulting customer se!
rvice, they said I should send it in for repairs.
I loved the Zen Micro, and thus it pains me to say this, but I have a hard time recommending something, when I've had two of them break on me in such a short time of owning them.
They obviously have quality and reliability problems.
They have a good concept here, and I normally expect a lot better quality from Creative, so maybe they will do better with the next gen version, but for now I say buyer beware.
ORIGINAL REVIEW December 2004 I'm sorry to read about other people having problems with their Zen Micro, but mine has worked great!
This is my first MP3 player and I am so impressed with what such a small device can do.
I have ripped over 100 songs from my CD collection and it was so easy and fast, and they all sound great.
I didn't experience any problems with the software or getting my computer to recognize the player.
My PC is running Windows 98 though....maybe having old outdated things is a good thing for once!
Y!
es, the interface took a little getting used to, but once I did, it's almost second nature now.
I love that you can create custom playlists, and organize music in so many different ways.
Only slight negatives I've had so far is that I haven't been able to get it to accept any of my WAV files yet.
It's supposed to support that format, but I keep getting a file transfer failure no matter what I try.
My other nit is that it didn't include at least some kind of carrying case for everything.
Yes, there is a belt clip, but that doesn't hold the extra battery and usb cable.
The little bag it comes with is cheap and useless.
It barely holds anything and mine just puts a bunch of thread fuzzies all over the player, because the bag is cheap and seems to be coming apart.
I threw it away.
Those are minor complaints though.
I love my dark blue zen micro and would definitely recommend it.
Soon I will have every CD song I care about from my collection to carry around with me.
Amazing.
I'm a new to mp3 players.
For years I've downloaded songs and burned CDs, but I decided to simplify my life and get an mp3 player.
After reading reviews and talking to a few friends, I decided on the Zen.
It is not a perfect product but it does have a lot going for it.
The FM tuner, the 5G of storage, and the removable disk are all great features.
The removable disk isn't really explained in the product literature but basically it allows you to partition a portion of the drive for data.
You can then hook up the Zen via USB to any Win2K or later computer and use that partition to store data files.
Any audio files in this area can't be played by the player.
I primarily got the Zen to use for band practice, so I use the removable disk to store lyrics and sheet music.
The fit and finish of the product is first-rate.
The slow throbbing glow that it emits during charging is cool too.
On the downside, I think the interface takes some getting used to and the Zen software !
is not as intuitive as I would like.
Also, the earbuds that came with it sound great but are uncomfortable (although my wife didn't have a problem), so I bought a pair of over-the-ear headphones.
I haven't used the Organizer feature (apparantly you can sync with Outlook).
You can also record with the built in mic and record FM broadcasts, I haven't tried those either.
Overall, I am very pleased with it.
The more I use it and figure out how to do things, the more I like it.
I would give the Creative Zen Micro five stars without hesitation...except for the eight hours of my life I can never get back.
Doing what, you ask?
Why, troubleshooting, mediating software conflicts, devising workarounds, and when things got too bizarre, even calling tech support.
Now, there's nothing wrong with the Zen Micro a few months in beta testing wouldn't iron out.
But, they rushed it to market, so you, general public, get to roll the dice.
Are you feeling lucky today?
Who knows -- you may avoid a migraine altogether.
Before you run out and buy an iPod, understand something: there are REASONS the Zen is worth encountering this kind of hassle, principally excellent (for MP3) sound quality.
The supplied headphones are hands-down better than the mediocre iPod buds.
That said, you can get more of what the Zen is capable of by donating them to your local iPod person (they're white) and getting a pair of $60-$80 aftermarket headphones.
I'm getting stunningly good resul!
ts with Sennheiser HD-497 phones.
Going further up-market and using super hi-rez audiophile headphones is probably overkill; they will only serve to cast MP3 limitations into sharper relief, and honey, you can't hear what ain't there.
An aside about sound quality: You can have good sound or 2,000+ songs, not both.
You're better off not dropping below 128 kbps, especially with music.
64 kbps is a terrible price to pay.
If you absolutely, positively need over 2,000 songs for your next wolverine photo shoot, get a 10 GB player.
The player is smaller than you think.
Something about the pictures suggests a deck-of-cards size, but you can hide the Micro completely under a standard business card.
The touch pad is over-sensitive, and is adjustable to only slightly oversensitive.
You quickly learn to brush your thumb ever so lightly over its surface.
To minimize any frustration (and the odds that you may return a usable unit), keep the following in mind:  1. While your unit is!
unboxed and charging up, visit the Creative website for necessary firmware and/or driver upgrades, especially if you're planning to use a service like Napster.
Some upgrades are needed for the Micro to work properly with the Windows XP operating system and Media Player 10.
You may need to briefly disable various spam blockers, cookie swatters, and antivirus programs (I know, I know -- get offline first).
My gatekeeper programs kept fixes away a few times until I got wise to it.
Bottom line: If you value excellent sound quality and the ability to use music subscription services, and are willing to deal with the possibility (not the certainty) of setup gremlins, by all means get the Zen Micro.
I bought this item in part due to the good reviews here on Amazon.
The machine itself seems fine, but the software that came with it is AWFUL.
After installation, the very first time I booted up the Creative MediaSource Organizer, intending to use its CD burning and ripping functions, it totally shorted out.
I tried everything to make it work - followed advice from Microsoft support, uninstalled and reinstalled the whole thing, rebooted every five minutes, ran a virus scan on my computer, checked my drives for errors, everything.
I was up all night trying to make the stupid thing work, to no avail.
Of course one of the first things I did was write an email to the customer support at Creative, through their website, and by the time they finally got back to me - several working days later when they promise only one - their suggestions were completely worthless.
Now I have to wait another few days for them to get back to me again, probably with more worthless suggestions?
And t!
his is what I get for my $200 on this MP3 player?
I think I'll stick to CDs.
The Zen Micro is near perfect.
I bought my Zen Micro last december as a christmas gift to myself, save for a few software issues, I couldn't be happier with my purhcase.
I've owned this player for nine months now and it's been on 5 cross country trips, one trans-atlantic honeymoon, and numerous roadtrips.
It's been in my pocket, in my car, and in my bag in 20 inches of snow and 100 degree summers.
It's been dropped, shuffled, kicked, and Lumbered.
It's still alive, still kicking, and still playing.
I've never owned an Ipod, so this won't be a which one is better review.
All of my files are mp3 or wma, Windows Media Player is my primary music suite, i use it to burn, play, rip, and sync.
So starting out i knew i wanted a windows friendly player.
The Zen Micro (mine's black) has a lot going for it.
It fits into a hand well, it has a removable battery (this is important), great sound quality, fm stereo, recorder, smooth UI, and a feature that most unipods lack... char!
m.
When it's being used or charged it emits a low pulsating blue light.
It's doesn't have a scroll wheel, but it has a strip!
Most people complain about the sensitivity, but it can easily be adjusted for personal preference.
My ONLY complaint is that when i first received it, it was a little buggy.
It wouldn't always work seemlessly with WMP and it often required me to restart the frozen micro by taking out the battery and restarting it.
over and over again.
But after a few firmware releases it's working without a hitch.
I've programed WMP to throw a few favorites on there all the time and always put my new music (less than 3 months) on so I can listen to them in the gym.
The accesories that come with the player are great.
White earbuds ( i replaced those with some shure headphones, big difference), a case, a stand, a clip (which doesn't really work), and a nice little zen micro bag.
Also all the required cables and what not.
To me, currently at $218, this player is a!
best in class.
It gives you the most bang for your buck, period.
Creative has been making computer sound equipment for decades and with the zen micro it finally has something with enough quality and, yes, charm to win a nice size of the digital player pie.
Pick your favorite color and buy it.
Alot of people seem to compare any music player to an Ipod.
Comments such as "it's stylish" or "it looks cool" or "everyone has it" don't nesseseraly make something good.
About the Ipod: it has it's downfalls as well.
As for the Zen Micro:\  Cons:  I read that every button is touch sensitive, and thats very annoying when all the main buttons are on the front.
Putting the Micro into your pocket could trigger just about anything (unless the hold feature is improved: it asks if you want to "unhold" for every button up press) Second, I'm worried about the durability of the player.
After research of other creative hard drive players, i found that most of them aren't very durable and tend to crash (read most reviews on amazon.com and see for yourself).
Last, i find the price a bit expensive for a product such as this.
$190 or $200 or less would have been much more reasonable (price compareble to 20gb mp3 players).
As for the warrenty, i havent seen it yet, but i fear for a short on!
e again.
Pros The Design is very nice, and the colors are too.
They are bold colors, not the (personally) irratating toned down 'light' Ipod colors.
It also has tons more features then previous creative products, and most of them are very useful such as the ability to custimize the main menu to show the stuff you want, not the default items (creativelabs.com for more on that).
The battery is also convenient, but could have been better, such as the Zen Touch's battery (but at least this one is removable).
Verdict:  Had I not needed something with a tad bit more space, I consider this player fair game.
If you don't mind all the buttons being touch sensitive, I'd recomment buying it to try out, and also buy an extra 2 year warrenty for it (there are some offered here, for about $15 dollors I think).
Closing: For everyone who is shallow and buys the Ipod only becouse of it's looks (i'm not saying it's necissarily bad), here's a joke: What did the Pencil Sharpener say to t!
he Pencil?
Stopping going in circles and get to the point.
Why go in circles to find something you want? (  :)  )
so i admit it... i wanted a zen micro, because the appeal of the iPod was overshadowed by it's annoying trendy hipster popularity and i felt better about myself for choosing a rip off version of that trendy hipster popularity.
anyway, my wife got this for me for my birthday and I love the thing.
I mainly only get to listen to music in my car, so it's an awesome replacement for a console full of the same ten cd's that have been in there for the last 8 months that i keep forgetting to replace.
she also got me an iRiver FM modulator that plugs into the ligher outlet, so i can play it through my regular radio.
anyway, here's the pros and cons:  +linux compatible with the 1.x series of firmware.
the program is called Gnomad and works great for me and seems to cover all the features the included windows sofware does.
+looks snazzy +smaller than a pack of smokes - easily transported +ac charger included as well as a hardshell that comes with a clip and a stand adapter +USB cable !
included - charges via USB, so whenever you plug it into your computer, it's charging up.
+Battery life is awesome IF you upgrade the firmware [requires a windows pc] OR make sure to always plug the ac adapter into the player before plugging into the outlet +Awesome sound quality... I mean it is Creative right?
Aren't they something of digital sound experts?
+Sorts music by artist, album, genre, etc... it's easy to wade through 5 gigs of tunes to find what you're looking for.
Also provides for playlists which are nice, but really only usefully set up through the PC software.
before i get into the cons, i'll make a note about the scrollpad.
It DOES take some getting used to.
my initial reaction was to tap the up and down arrows, when in reality, you need to touch, maintain contact and slide your finger up and down.
it's a little counter intuitive at first, but works great when your used to it.
it's a neutral feature in my book.
simple mechanical buttons would probably work !
just as well and would be less confusing for new owners, but i guess they wanted to rival the iPod's search wheel.
whatever...  on to the negatives:  -touchy about charging... you can damage the battery and seriously decrease it's life if you don't upgrade the firmware OR dont' heed the advice to always plug in the player side of the cord before plugging in the outlet side.
-doesn't like to be charged via USB on non windows PCs or PCs that don't have the Zen Micro driver installed.
It has the odd side effect of the buttons only partially working?
Simply removing the battery and then replacing it fixes the issue, but it's annoying.
The new firmware fixes this as long as you put the player in lock mode before plugging it into said PC.
-User's guide doesn't cover a lot of important info that is covered on their website.
I definately recommend upgrading the firmware, which is as simple as downloading a program from creatives website and running it with your player plugged in.
(linux geeks -> avoid the 2.x series that is aimed at windows media play!
er compatibility, you can't downgrade the firmware.
) -Can't be left in the car... it immediately shuts down with an overheating error if left in a hot car for too long.
But since it's so small, it isn't a big deal to bring it with me.
Overall though, i'm very happy with it and highly recommend it to folks looking for a mp3 player, even if it is to pretend your not a braindead consumer giving into the marketing hype of the iPod. ;)
I have been researching MP3 players for the last two weeks.
Of course the first one I decided to research first was the Apple iPod.
However, as soon as I found out that I could only download songs from iTunes, I immediately decided that was NOT the MP3 player for me.
In addition, I didn't like the fact that I'd have to pay $.99 for each song I wanted to download.
So I went to www.playforsure.com to see what devices were compatible with various downloading services.
I had been eyeing the Creative Zen Micro 5GB as I researched various players.
I finally decided to purchase this player because it was compatible with Napster 2 Go....which is a subscription service, allowing me to download as much music as I want for a $14.95 flat fee.
I have a lot of songs that I need to download.
I was going to purchase a pink one and then decided that I'd get a purple one because that's my favorite color....however Circuit City had it for $10 cheaper ($219.00) in black and I could !
pick it up from the store.
So I decided on the black one.
And I must say...this MP3 is very cool.
It is exactly the same size as my flip phone.
It's so cute...and behind the black panel it glows in a neon blue.
After installation, which was VERY simple....I downloaded any updated software from the Creative website, before I downloaded any music.
There were two downloads I had to complete.
One was the firmware upgrading from the installation CD and the second was regarding the "playforsure" (even though it's in BETA), to make sure I could use Napster 2 Go.
I then registered with Napster 2 Go and it immediately recognized my player.
And within one hour I had downloaded , organized my play lists and was listening to the songs I downloaded.
Napster 2 Go also allows members to view other members play lists in different genres, so if you are looking for lots of songs and you don't want to search for them endless, you can just grab them from other members play lists. !
The sound is very nice.
I feel like it's just me and the music and I am transported into a different world.
It also comes with a case so you can either stand it up or use a belt clip.
So I can't wait to get on my treadmill with it.
I also like the lock feature, so it makes the touch pad inactive.
I tried to use the FM radio option, but it doesn't seem to really pick up the stations I listen, however I am going to try it in a different location, it may have just been my residential location.
I would say the only thing I need to adjust is the sensitivity of the touch pad.
Even when I set it to low, it's still very hard for me to adjust the player to where and what I want it to do.
However, I am going to try the suggestion of changing the sensitivity to high and see if that solves the problem.
Otherwise, I am extremely please with the Creative Zen Micro 5GB MP3 player.
PS.
I've been ZETAZEN long before this player came into existence...lol and my player's name is ZETAZEN.
:-)  www.zetazen.com
I had to revise my review today!... If you are still trying to decide Ipod or Zen Micro, Yahoo! has just closed the deal.
They now offer Yahoo Music Engine, wich is like Napster to Go, but at a fraction fo the price.
Its $4.99 a month ($60 annually) to download as much music as you like.
You can fill it up with anything you like out of there 1 Million song library.
Also if you want to purchase music, its just .79cents per track ..... Here is my origianl review...." My wife already had the Ipod Mini when I purchased this, and I must say seeing it in action, I had some reservations about getting a Zen.
However after playing with it for three weeks now, I'm convinced, the Zen Micro is superior.
I think sound quality should be the first and foremost feature, and the Zen is leaps and bounds better in sound quality, with no need to upgrade the earphones.
I thought the FM radio would not see much use with so many tracks avaiable to me, but its great for tuning in to TV programs at the gym while on the treadmill, concerts and programs being simulcast, NPR, and on and on.
When you don't feel like toting a PDA while out for the day (i.e. cycling, window shopping, etc,)simply download everything thru outlook.
I've read about the issues with the scroll bar, but they must have taken care of that now.
Mine is as easy to use as the mini without any firmware download.
Its also smaller, and gets more looks.
People are use to seeing so may Ipods, that when they see my Zen, they have to ask questions.
An extra gig of room, FM radio, voice recorder, PIM applications with sync to Outlook.
This is really a no brainer.
[+][s]
I purchased this over the Ipod Mini because it had several nice features: extra 1G storage, WMA support, replaceable battery, and especially that it wasn't an Apple product with their proprietary architecture.
After using it for a week, I wish I had purchased the Ipod.
The Touchpad is virtually unusable -- sometimes you have to press like mad to make a selection and other times the slightest brush causes something to be selected that you don't want.
This is by far my biggest complaint.
Another problem is that the latest 2.0 firmware upgrade moves you into Windows Media Player 10 which seems to be very, very slow for downloads.  charging[-2]
... then this might intrigue you greatly.
The hook with this MP3 player, distinguishing it from the others, is clearly going to be the OS applications it provides.
Finally, someone has figured out that building some smarts into the player will help it compete with iPods.
The latest craze for MP3 manufacturers is the 5Gb microdrive, a 25% boost from the 4Gb ones supplied by Hitachi.
At this point, the Rio Carbon is 5Gb (along with a host of South Korean manufacturers), and eventually the iPod will get a "free" upgrade to 5Gb as the 4Gb trickle down to nothing.
Then what?
What compels you to choose one over the other?
It has to be the UI and user experience.
The Carbon is nice but offers no improvement to the near-perfect iPod experience.
The scroll wheel is not an Apple innovation, but it took Apple to put it on their MP3 player for the obvious to become clear to the industry.
So tack on a scroll wheel and... you still have to compete against the intuitive OS-based application that an iPod offers the user.
It's easy to find songs, organize songs, and also carry some essentials and diversions.
The iPod gets it right, the Carbon doesn't.
Today, the Creative Zen Micro proves it, too, gets it right.
Better for the Zen Micro is Outlook compatibility.
This makes the Zen Micro the first choice for MP3 owners with a Windows-based system.
I'm not professing to be a consumer-survey corporation, but I don't know *anyone* with an iTunes account.
However, I do know about a dozen people with well over 4000 MP3s each.
What device would I recommend?
Well, if size matters, and you like the idea of a lime-green or bright yellow device, then I'd have to go with a Creative Zen Micro.
Creative has excellent music software, a very responsive tech support group (they are quick on firmware updates, and make them publicly available), and usually a good array of accessories.
The Zen Micro is no exception: in addition to the case, it comes with a neck strap, and has all of the necessary cables for syncing and charging.
The extra spare battery is just a neat bonus.
If I could, I'd trade-up on my Creative Muvo2 and snag a Zen Micro tomorrow.
**** I gave up a ton of positive reviews to add this addendum.
I do not work for Creative; I had a chance to play with a review copy in-depth, as others have (See Engadget, Gizmodo, or c|net as examples).
Just because Amazon doesn't have it to sell doesn't mean the product is unavailable for review.
Please judge any review you read -- in any medium, be it here or newspapers or magazines -- by its own merits. ****  Fred
I already own the Creative Nomad Zen, the 30 gig version.
I wanted something more portable, shirt-pocket sized, and something to complement the new Yahoo Music Unlimited site.
This is a perfect blend to accomplish both tasks.
My big Zen has hundreds of CDs on it, but this little player will store my most listened to tunes, or songs Iwant to download for free from the Yahoo site, "test drive", then decide if I want to download permanently into my larger Creative.
I also own a retail store and this little guy easily plugs into my AUX slot in the store's sound system.
Feature for feature, I find it a very sweet little player; equipped with a higher end headphone system, between this and th larger Zen Ihardly use my home stereo system anymore.
And I gave my CD plyaers away in a garage sale.
If you buying this player to use with Napster to Go, wait a while.
A lot of people are having problems with the firmware update required to use the player for Napster to Go.. The firmware is beta and they are are a lot of bugs in it.
Check out message boards on Napster for more info.
if not amazed, I won't go into the kind of detail many people have here, but I do want to say a few things about my experience so far (I've had it about two weeks) with the Zen Micro;
these are the things I was curious about when I was shopping around.
On the whole, I'm quite happy with the purchase.
The sound is bright and clear, the ability to store any MP3's (and not just Apple-approved files) is great, and I plan to make use of the storage space and sound recording from time to time.
The device looks very cool, I think (exactly as the photos promise), it's comfortable and lightweight in my jacket pocket, and the interface and controls are easy enough to navigate after a bit of practice.
No offense to Amazon, but I was able to find one online for just over 200 bucks (I'm sure prices here will continue to sink), and that also seemed quite a good bargain for the amount of storage space.
Now the downside:  One of the features that factored into my choice of a Micro!
instead of an iPod (I know this is a tediously recurring theme in these reviews, but I want to get my two cents in) was the FM radio.
I like some local stations, Stern, and NPR, and so the radio seemed like a great option.
Imagine my disappointment, though, when the Zen Micro proved able to play only the mega-strongest FM signals in my area.
It seems like you need to park yourself right next to a radio tower for the Micro to pull in a strong sound.
The battery, as others have said, also seems weaker than Creative suggests.
Here's a quote from Creative's web site (hoping to sell additional batteries):   "Carry an extra rechargeable battery for your Zen Micro for an additional 12 hours of nonstop music."
Try an additional *six* hours, methinks.
Still, that's enough time that I'm still satisfied, if a bit grouchy with Creative's overhyped promises.
Have not had any issues with the headphones or fragility.
 As I said, I don't regret the purchase at all.
To use a bas!
eball metaphor: I was hoping Creative hit a home run here, and I think the Zen Micro is more like a stand-up double.
Respectable, solid, but not awe-inspiring.
If you're considering an iPod mini or even an iPod, read this.
I looked at the market extensively and took a lot of advice before making the big buy here.
I wanted a player that had good capacity, construction that can stand up to exercise, good sound quality, good battery life, good looks, compatibility, and a fair price.
Tall order, eh?
Actually, the Creative Zen Micro solves all that.
Sound quality? Phenomenal.
unarguably better than Apple's, and nice earbuds to boot.
Looks?
Let's just say it's no coincidence I put "Foxy Lady" on there.
Your choice of ten colors in a beatiful package.
Capacity?
Apple has tried to hide something from you: most people don't actually need more than a few gigs at most.
Five gigabytes is plenty for my great albums.
(Like I really wanted "Hotel California" anyway.
)  Construction?
Tough as nails.
No skips, and it hasn't faltered once (despite your inevitable drop or two.
)  Compatibility?
Flawless.
They've partnered with Napster to give you a! free month of the subscription service (read: all the music you want free for thirty days, when you can cancel with all your music safely hidden away.
No locked-in proprietary business like Apple; this baby plays WMAs too.
The voice recorder is a beautiful add-on; not even necessary, but just an example of why Apple just wants your money and Creative Labs wants to make a better player.
Gets nice sound too.
The FM tuner is just a little spare icing on the cake.
And the price?
A bargain $200.
Do NOT buy Apple.
Inferior quality at a higher price (and shoddy reliability) is not quite justified just because they have a better spokesperson.
In conclusion, this player is beautiful.
Power for the tech-savvy, ease of use for the less fortunate.
But it; you won't regret it.
I must say, after tons of research, I have chosen the right Mp3 player.
This player is absolutely phenomenal, I haven't had any problems, and if you're worried you will have problems, I suggest buying it at a retail store that has a good return policy but anyways... I find the touch pad very easy to use, and I'm surprised so many people have had problems.
The sound quality is superb, much better than that of an iPod, in my opinion.
The radio works excellent in my area, I'm not sure everywhere else.
The software is very easy to use, and the transfer is super fast!
I'm not gonna go into the features cause if you're reading this review, you've probably already looked at them, but I must say the DJ feature if Very cool and the removable battery is also a bonus!
Mine came with a wall adapter, but it charges when plugged into the computer anyways.
The blue light also makes this player one of the most fashionable in the market also.
Overall I have no complaints, this is jus!
t simply the best player on the market for a really low price, so why look anywhere else?
I've been using iTunes for about a year now with the intention of eventually buying an iPod.
That was before the Zen Micro came along.
I've had it for about a week now and have to say it's one of the best purchases I've ever made.
it's a great looking, easy-to-use device but it's the sound quality which is truly amazing -- far better than my Sony mini-disc player.
I have no problems with the touch pad (once the sensitivity is set to low) and the interface is a breeze to use without even looking at the PDF manual.
I can't comment on the bundled software as I haven't even looked at it.
Why bother when it works perfectly with Media Player 10?
As for the problem with locking up mentioned in a previous post, it only seems to happen if the USB cable is unplugged while WMP 10 is still running.
I just close the program down first, wait for the message to appear on the Micro, then unplug it.
This appears to prevent the lockup issue.
The battery life doesn't appear to be any!
where close to 12 hours but at least it is replaceable (and they included a second one free).
I would give it about 6 or 7 hours, although it will probably get better after a few charge cycles.
This was probably the biggest reason I chose the Micro over an iPod.
The extra Gb is just a bonus.
The headphones which came with it are mediocre at best but what can you expect from a set of "ear buds".
Plug in a decent set or hook it up to a stereo system and prepare to be impressed.
If your looking for a great sounding mini player, you can't go wrong with the Zen Micro.
After much research I decided that the Zen Micro was the best mp3 player for me.
Unfortunately I was wrong.
Within one month, my player completely died.
(It had locked up multiple times previously, but always managed to work afterwards) This time, the touch screen wouldn't respond to me and none of the buttons worked.
So I took out the battery and put it back in again, only to find that it would not work.
Frustrated, I exchanged the player only to get another faulty one!
I had the second one for less than two weeks when I noticed a rattling/humming/buzzing sound while music was played.
I've tried different headphones, upgrading firmware, using different files and nothing helps.
I sent Creative customer service 3 emails in which they did not help me one bit and don't seem to even want to help.
Ive heard many good reviews of this product and I wonder if maybe I just had bad luck.
It was a good player when it worked and I loved the design.
It's too bad, though, that !
I don't want to keep testing my luck.
This time I'm going to get something a little more reliable - an iPod mini.
The Creative Zen Micro, at first glance, is a dream come true for all mp3 and music lovers.
I absolutely didn't want to by an Ipod.
Not because I wanted to go against the grain, but the idea of having to shell out another 100 bucks (after a year) in order to have Apple replace the non-removable battery just turned me off.
The Zen offered a great alternative.
Now, there are many alternatives to the Ipod, but I wanted a nice design, also, and not some generic looking mp3 player.
I wanted something that looked at least almost as good as an Ipod.
I saw the Zen, and-BOOM-I bought one for me and one for a family member.
What happens follows:       Let's start with the software.
It's easy to use, and makes transfering your CD collection to the player a cinch.
You can compress the files for more storage space before you start the transfer.
The sonic detail at the highest compression rate(64 kbps WMA) is crazy.
The clarity is unbelievable, which means you can cram almost the full 2,5!
00 song capacity of the disk without having to worry about the quality of your music (the Zen micro, actually starts off with about 4.7GB after loading the software).
When mine died, I had 1,022 songs loaded, but only used a little over 2gb of space.
Other mp3 players won't give you the sonic clarity of the Zen at this compression level, so I imagine they won't at lower ones, either.
Check the Zen's S/N ratio and DB rating.
They're better than the IPOD, plus, there are seven EQ settings (including custom).
The included headphones suck, so get your own.
Transfering MP3s are a cinch with the included software.
The Zen plays mp3, wma and wave formats, which makes it more versatile than the Ipod.
The greatest thing about the software (in my humble) is that it reads your CD info.
and labels it before you burn the CD into the Zen.
Track #, name, artist, album and genre is automatically-retrieved via internet-labeled, and properly catergorized into the Zen.
This feature wo!
rks almost without fail, no matter what your taste in music is: From relaxation music to hard rock, to hip hop, to Korean and Japanese, to Afro-Cuban and Salsa, Jazz, Blues, Country and Pop, this feature performs well.
Just check the menu on your Zen, and it's all there, and neatly stored.
At least, that is, while it's still alive.
The touch sreen navigation will take a little getting used to, but once you do, and while the Zen is still alive, it's a great alternative to the marching in lock step with the click wheel commies.
It's a tad too sensitive for a first time user (my family member, however, had no problem with it), and it drove me nuts at first.
A trick I used was to manually capitalize all the info.
going into the Zen from my computer, so my stubby, clumsy fingers could cordinate better with my color blind, near, far and mid sighted eyes.
Once I did this, visions of burning my CDs-literally-dance around my head, and all was right in the world (of course, I would have backed my files up, silly).
The features this thing has are !
just too numerous to list: FM radio, which has weak reception, but at least it there, and a microphone, to name just two.
Oh, and another is the cool "halo" light that surrounds the touch pad, and light's up when you touch the screen, and how the light glows when the Zen is connected to the computer.
But, the Creative Zen Micro is plagued by a serious, serious stupid and elemenatary design flaw, and I'm going to tell you what it is...But first, two more things about this piece of garbage that's so great and could've made it a potenial IPOD killer.
One: It's size: It's smaller than the Ipod Mini, and holds more music (5GB to the IPOD mini's 4GBs).
It's smaller, in most cases than the palm of your hand, and is ergonomically curved.
I loved this thing.
I've had Dell Pocket DJ owners, IPOD mini AND Shuffle owners marvel at this thing.
It cost less than, in most cases, $190.
Two: it has a removeable/rechargeable battery, so you don't have to send the thing in when the re!
chargeable battery runs out; thereby, waiting 3 weeks to get it back, and possibly with all of your music erased.
But, all of this means nothing, because of the serious, serious, stupid and ridiculously elemenatary design flaw: After 3 months, give or take a few weeks, you won't be able to hear anything.
Why?
because the "engineers" at Creative screwed up the design of the headphone jack.
It's an admitted design flaw that the people at Creative have acknowledged (google it).
There are bulletin boards and customer reviews all over the web talking about it.
If you send in your Zen to have the flaw fixed, you lose all of the music you've been loading into the thing for 2-3 months, which came out to 1022 songs and 80 albums for me.
Again, the headphone jack on this thing is garbage.
It comes loose after 3 months-give or take-of careful use.
Using right angled jacks on your headphones, which minimizes the movement of the headphones while plugged in, won't alleviate the problem.
I used them.
Again, this is a design flaw in the headphone!
jack that Creative has acknowledge.
I know what you are thinking.
You once had a cheap CD player (or walkman) that had the same problem, and you just used miniture screwdrivers to push the left/right prongs out.
If only only it was that simple.
The flaw is inside the Zen.
You can't see it by looking into the jacks where the prongs are.
The flaw is in the circuit board that the headphone jack is connected to.
In other words, you have to do almost the equivalent of open heart surgery in order just to see where the problem is.
There are do it yourself sites (with pictures)that show you how to repair it, but keep in mind that you will have to break the warranty seal, which means?
So, if you don't won't to void your warranty, you will have to get in touch with Creative, they will send you a rma number, fix your Zen, but you lose all of your dogon music.
The Creative Zen Micro is a Zen Micro killer, not an Ipod killer.
Do your research; check !
out the bulletin boards.
Why would anyone buy this when you can get a 20GB iPod that will hold 4 times the number of songs (and even MORE if AAC encoding is used) for the same price???
In addition , iPods can be used as portable hard drives and can display your calendars and contact info.
This player is fantastic in terms of audio quality, ease of use, and features.
However, if you are considering purchasing one to use with subscription music services like Napster-to-go, or Yahoo Music Unlimited, there are a few things to keep in mind:  1.
To use the Creative Zen player with a subscription service, you need to go to Creative's web site, and download new software for your PC.
You will also need to download and install new firmware on the player.
At the time of this writing, that firmware is a "beta release."
I haven't seen any problems yet, but if you don't like to tinker a bit, this player can be a little challenging to set up.
Right now, the Creative software transfers subscription music files very slowly.
It makes USB 2.0 feel like USB 1.1.
This doesn't affect standard MP3 files - just subscription WMA files.
The solution?
Use Windows Media Player 10 to do your transferring.
The subscription files are still a little slower to transfer, but it's only by about 10% or so.
3.
Subscription files need to buffer when you first hit "play," so there's a 4-7 second delay before the first song starts.
However, once an album is playing, there's no gap between songs.
The player intelligently pre-buffers the next song.
Again, this doesn't affect regular MP3 files - just subscription DRM-encoded files, like those from Napster-to-Go or Yahoo Music Unlimited.
These issues knock a single star off the review.
Otherwise, this is a great "alternative" MP3 player for those of use who don't want to worship the mighty all-powerful Apple.
I got it to use with the new $5-per-month service from Yahoo (Music Unlimited,) and despite the above issues, I love it.
The subscription service lets me download as much as I want, and the player lets me take it wherever I go.
Nobody has clearly articulated what exactly about the Ipod mini makes it better than this product.
I have visited multiple websites, and for virtually EVERY new hard-drive-based mp3 player I find, there are always user reviews that smash the new player and say something like "Just go buy an Ipod!"
Apple apparently has built up a very nice following of brainwashed consumers.
It is unlikely that you will EVER get the best products just by sticking with one company.
What is the conjunctive probability that each successive product release will be without flaws or that the company isn't having turnover in the R&D department (or making bad management decisions)?
Apple never was involved with a lot of audio products until the Ipod.
I have owned some kind of Creative audio product since 1993 and have never had to call tech support.
Of course, some were better than others, and I probably could have gotten a better sound card from another company at some point.
The main issue now is that this new Zen Micro seems to be the best on the market at least temporarily.
It beats Apple on the storage space, it beats apple on the removable battery (and batter life), and I personally like its interface more than the Ipod scroll wheel.
Further, the tech specs suggest that it has better audio quality than the Ipod.
It may be that the next Creative product is complete junk, but you should make product decisions based on product attributes NOW, not based on a halo effect of an idealized company (Apple) or other pointless loyalties.
I have had several MP3 players over the past few years, and have to say that this by far is the best that I've owned.
(The others include: the Intel Pocket Concert, the Archos Jukebox, which was returned after three or four faulty units...I'm extremely patient, and the Creative Labs Nomad Jukebox 3.
) A previous reviewer has mentioned several different issues with the 'Zen Micro'.
However, their player seems to be defective and Creative Labs should be contacted before making such harsh statements if they haven't been contacted already.
I must say that there are several factors that influenced my purchase.
An Apple Ipod Mini was considered.
However, the Ipod does not come close to the number of extra features that the 'Zen Micro' has to offer.
Some features that the 'Zen Micro' has that sold me on my purchase include: a 5G hard drive...actually an SD flash card drive...very large and much more than actually needed, the ability to sync with Microsoft Outlook's calendar, the long battery life of about 10 to 12 hours (I can change the battery myself for about $40 to buy vs.
sending the unit to the company of purchase which costs about $90), the ability to record with a built-in microphone (great for recording reminders and meetings), very sturdy construction, and not to mention...the sound quality is excellent!
As far as user interface is concerned, the best and easiest to use seems to be the one that comes with the player, 'Creative MediaSource Organizer'.
It comes with a built-in program simply entitled 'Creative MediaSource Audio Converter'.
This program enables the user to batch convert and convert audio files from one format to another.
These include: MP3, Wave, WMA, WMA Pro, and WMA Lossless; it is very user-friendly simply by right-clicking the file(s) to be converted.
By far this seems to be the best value out there for the money; if you are undecided, the Creative Zen Micro seems to be the best choice.
I don't know, maybe I got a defective one but first, the player would not shut off, next, the player would not come on - I had to send it away to get repaired.
Now, the player's ear phone jack is not working - I have to send it away again.
When it's working, it's great but it is very tempermental.
Don't get this...keep browsing.
The iPod has so far been one of the most advertised and populated MP3 players so far.
I'm still figuring out why.
 There isn't much features on the iPod at all, except games.
My friend has this unit while not experience it much, I look at other reviews on this site and tried out the unit at Best Buy, and it's definitely the most overrated gadget in history.
SOUND QUALITY: The iPod's sound quality is pretty good.
 The Creative player sounds a bit better, but not anything to worry about.
 It has an equalizer, but the iRiver H10-20GB has a lot more presets than the iPod.
The bass is deep and the treble is clear.
  DURABILITY: Not good. First problem, if you haven't seen the news recently, the iPods are being recalled for battery problems and not lasting the advertised 18 months.
This is really stupid to me. 18 months for a battery isn't good, actually, it's medicore.
iRiver's battery lasts four to five years.
Also, the battery's AREN'T USER REPLACEABLE.
 However, the Creative and iRiver players are (Rio's isn't), and they only cost around $30 to replace, while iPod charges shipping and technical support.
The iPod's battery, 1.5 years.
Yeah, pretty weak.
 Another thing you should know, the metal on the flip side of the iPod is very tacky, and scratches very easily.
 While all MP3 players are easy to scratch, the iPod is the worst of the Creative and iRiver.
 Also, not liking the gel case.
iRiver's seems a lot more sturdier than the iPod's.
 FEATURES: Really, there aren't any features, unless you call the games a feature.
There is no FM tuner, while there is no FM tuner on the Creative Zen (on the micro version of the Zen there is a tuner), the iRiver H10-20GB, the Rio Karma, and the iAudio X5 have FM tuners.
 There is also no voice recording, something most if not all MP3 players have that the iPod doesn't.
 There is no photo viewing option, however, there is a 20 GB photo iPod, but it costs $20 more.
 There is an alarm and timer, but most MP3 players have this feature.
  EASE OF USE/DESIGN: The iPod is a very easy to use MP3 player, and if you can't figure this out, you shouldn't even own one.
The Click Wheel is a great design, something no one else came up with (however, the iRiver has a touchpad).
I'm probably the only person that dislikes the iTunes software.
I just don't like it, the weird thing is, I don't know why I dislike it.
 Maybe because it doesn't have a lot of skins to choose from like WMP, but then again, I dislike WMP as well because it's slow on my computer.
Anyhow, adding music to the player is easy.
 BATTERY LIFE: Pretty medicore at 12 hours, the Creative, iAudio, Rio, and iRiver players last longer.
 CUSTOMER SERVICE: Awful. Listen to this one, remember the battery statement I made earlier.
If your battery dies and it's still under warranty, guess what, you're out of luck, because Apple doesn't cover the battery in the iPod warranty.
They have the nerve to charge you $30 for a warrantied iPod.
 There technical service isn't helpful either; they just read what's on their website and charge you $50 (+ toll fees) to do it.
At least Creative and iRiver's only charge toll fees like most companies.
OVERALL: I highly dislike the iPod, even though the sound quality and design is above-average.
Maybe in their 5th generation they'll add features to the iPod. But for now, pleases don't buy this, and buy a Creative Zen or the iRiver H10-20GB instead.
God Save Apple	 I have been an Apple person since 1984, when I got my first Mac.
Since then, I have been a devotee of the elegant styling and functionality of all things Apple.
The Ipod is a fine cousin to the early macs and current offerings from Jobs and Company.
Long live Apple, long live Macs, and long live the Ipod!
I have an ipod and it is a great buy.
It holds a ton of songs and looks cool in the palm of your hand.
 Very sturdy and strong.
 Doesn't have alot of good games on it.
 the 20 gig because that holds 10,000 songs right there and that's alot of songs.
buy it.
iPod is brilliant, but service was awful
 Wow iPod.
How did we listen to music before it?
This 20 gigabyte iPod by Apple Computer allows you to put up to 5000 songs onto it, in a choice of digital formats.  MP3, AAC, etc.
The software with the iPod includes iTunes, which allows you to play the music on your computer, rip CDs onto your computer, and move your music from the computer to the iPod.
iTunes is a great piece of software, and you can also buy songs from the iTunes Store at 99 cents per download.
This new click wheel iPod allows you to navigate through the menus and song via a touch-wheel for scrolling and click-able buttons for selection.
It allows fast and easy navigation.
 The backlit screen of the iPod is also easy to read.
 The song quality of the iPod is excellent, and the included ear buds are actually more than satisfactory, for most users.
 The back of the iPod is in a chrome finish, and this surface is prone to scratches.
It is best to protect the iPod in a case of some kind.
 Battery life keeps improving on the iPod, and a new iPod will give you up to twelve hours of play time, per charge.
I use my iPod all the time.
 You can also use it as an external hard drive to back-up documents, photographs, etc.
The problem with my iPod.
 The first one I received skipped songs randomly.
 I had to send it in for repair, and it took six weeks to get a replacement back to me.
 I actually had to contact Apple's Vice-president, in order to get the situation resolved.
However, he quickly helped me, and I have been enjoying my replacement 20 gigabyte click-wheel iPod for several months now.
Thank you Apple!  You make fabulous products.
 The product I rate five stars,
but I had to give you four because the service for my brand-new iPod was terribly slow.
 However, you should still buy an iPod!
 The chances of getting a flawed one is very small indeed.
  Plus, if you order from Amazon.com, they will exchange it for you no problem.
I had ordered a customized one from Apple.com, so I couldn't exchange it.
iPod will change the way you enjoy music!
Very Pleased.
I'd never had an MP3 player before, so this was a new one on me.
 The interface took a little getting used to.
 The best thing for anyone to do who has not used one is to ask the store clerk at apple or a teenager for advice on how to operate it.
 This one has a color display, which I like a lot, being very visual.
I loaded a lot of photos into it and they display very clearly for such a small screen and, very importantly, the transition from one photo to the next is instantaneous.
 The sound is just fine.
I'm not a big audiophile, but I have no objections to how it sounds.
 I use it to listen to language tapes and to play "Earl" by the Dixie Chicks incessantly.
It comes with an adapter to plug into the wall, which I hear is a step up from the other iPods, which require you plug it into a computer to charge it.
I also have been using it as a USB device, which just tickles me no end.
Now, I can back up what little I  keep on my computer quickly and without a fuss.
 One caveat I have is that I understand the iPod does not save the photos in such a way that the quality of the image is preserved.
 I think its the 21st century version of the wallet with little photos.
Here's the TRUTH in short....
This is a great device, but there are its pros and cons.
 Pros: Large Hard Drive for the $$-- 20GB and 40GB are both affordable.
Decently Sized Screen-- One of the larger ones on the market at 2"
Decent Battery-- On the average size, but the 40GB comes with a dock.
12 hours is about average, and it has an AC adapter in the box, with quick charge (2 hours) at probably 80%... and 4 hours for a full charge.
 FireWire & USB2.0-- For those fortunate enough to have FireWire400, your in for a real treat with autosync.
 Great Design-- Very sleek and touch wheel has still never been successfully copied (vertal ones are the only competition); and now the wheel clicks, taking away a lot of headaches from 3rd gen and very navigable in the menus.
Good sound-- Plays very nicely, even though the stock headphones are kind of weak Durable-- not the most durable because its mostly plastic, but very compact and sturdy
Games-- not really important, but existant
Hold Button-- suprisingly not all MP3s have this; this allows you  to have all the buttons unusable, so that you don't accidently hit something in your pocket.
 Cons: No AM/FM Radio Tuner-- Something a large number of competetors are doing
3 No Voice Recorder-- this has also become an important and popular feature that the iPod unfortunately doesn't have.
 No Memory Stick slots-- Although a rare feature, it would be nice to have extra storage, not that it needs it Built-in Lithium Battery-- A huge hassle to bring this back; draining the battery once you get it helps, but removable/replaceable ones are a lot more convenient
. iTunes-- this is a love-hate relationship program; usually people with Mac like this program than people with a PC, but depending on your computer expertise, this could be a difficult program to use, and it is required for an iPod.
No inbox accessories-- An arm strap, belt strap, case, or anything would be nice, but nope... Moveable parts-- This makes me almost want to keep my 3rd gen over a 4th; with moveable parts, its easy to damage an iPod at a gym, so this is for more casual listeners; note the iPod Mini doesn't have moveable parts and is made of titanium.
  Comments: Overall this is still a great value, but is kind of overrated in the sense that there are beater deals on the market.
  A lot of people go for the iPod because of its reputation, but if you honestly shop around and check out the reviews on Cnet and things like that, you can find a better 20GB HD MP3 player.
 This is definately worth the money to have, but certain aspects of it doesn't make it the best.
Get an ARCHOS Gmini400 instead	 If you are doing your research and thinking whether iPod is right for you...      give the ARCHOS Gmini400 a look.
I returned my 20G iPod 7 months ago and got a Gmini instead.
 A sound decision and a happy customer right here!
 I look at iPod owners today and quietly feel sorry for them. :) They just didn't know about the ARCHOS gmini400.
The Gmini is like an iPod VIDEO, PHOTO, GAME, MUSIC, all into ONE and it is exactly the same size as the iPod...      and you can play any MP3 directly and fresh from the NET...     oh yeah, even audio books, anything!
It's a plug n play device, recognized as MASS STORAGE DEVICE on any windows xp computer.
No need to install the iTunes.
Versatile and stylish.
I had a Casio unit, which had given great service, and would have been happy to get another one, but was tempted by the iPod's sleek design, storage capacity, connection options- - firewire and USB, and its integration with iTunes.
The battery issue is superficially a concern, but any reasonable solder-jockey (such as myself :-) can pop in a new one when the time comes (based upon the plentiful info gained from a google for 'ipod battery replacement').
The controls and the menus are clearly displayed and easily fathomed
And it's easily connected to a Linux or FreeBSD machine for loading and unloading files, so I can also retire my ZIP drive.
 The iPod is a very nice product, which given reasonable care, should give a lot of service.
Still not so sure about this one...
 First, let me say that I got the 20gb iPod for Christmas, and I most likely would not have spent the $300 myself.
 So far, in the month that I have had it, I have had to take it in for service twice.
  This is a hassle, of course, but I'm not sure if the problems are to blame on poor construction, cold weather, or misuse by yours truly.
In addition, I do not think the battery lasts much more than eight to ten hours, and it can take four hours for a full charge.
  Again, another hassle.
 To be sure, I am not looking forwards to paying for the battery replacement, whenever that may come.
But enought of the negativity.
 I have about 6 gb used on my iPod so far (well over 1000 songs), and as far as I can tell, all of them play at near-cd quality.
 Sound quality is more dependant on the quality of the original source and of the unit used to broadcast (headphones, stereo, etc).
Other than the fact that one can't delete a file directly from the iPod, the interface is excellent and mind-numbingly simple to use.
Someone wrote that they haven't been able to upload songs from burned cds; I have not found this to be so.
 I have several hundred songs from burned albums, at they all worked fine.
 As for iTunes, I don't find it to be as good as the Windows Media Player as a computer mp3 player, but it is good enough.
 I haven't used it to purchase any files, so I don't know about that.
  All in all, it does what it is supposed to do with minimal frustration.
 In conclusion, I gave the iPod a 4/5 because anything this expensive should would work just about flawlessly.
  In the end, I haven't used it long enough to say that it is worth the extra money.
Do your research before you buy it, and especially talk to other owners.
 i've had a beastly experience from trying to buy an ipod from circuit city.
when i got the ipod, i slid the box out of its sheath and the whole thing tumbled out!
simply put somebody had already opened the box earlier!
 the packing inside was in tatters.
i didnt touch the product.
 i called circuit city and complained that they had sent me an already opened box.
 they initially told me that i would have to ship it back to them on my own cost.
then when i argued with them they told me that they would pick it up.
 a week passed but it was never picked up.
 the when i called they said they werent responsible for open packages because they couldnt verify it being open when i received it (why else would i want to return it if not for this? if the product was defective i would have complained so) and that if i returned it i would have to pay a 15% restocking fee!  i'm at my wits end with this company.
buyers BEWARE!
There's got to be a better solution...
I bought my IPOD roughly six months ago, and I've been pretty disappointed so far.
 *The ipod is overly sensitive to just about everything and gets scratched easily.
 You must buy some sort of protective case unless you want your ipod to look like some crazed animal with ten inch nails attacked it.
*	The 20 GB version doesn't actually have 20 GB, but 18.5 GB, which makes a difference of roughly 300 songs. *
The Battery does not last 12 hours.
Like I said, I've had my ipod for six short months and I'd estimate the battery life to be about four hours at the most.
  It seems to deteriorate every time I use it.
 You can't change the battery, so I don't know what I'm going to do in a year or so.
  *	You can't turn the volume up very high, but I think this might be for health reasons. *
My ipod freezes occasionally, which is especially annoying when you're in the middle of a game of "brick." *
If you call apple and tell them your ipod has been damaged, they charge you roughly $105.50 per minute and blame you for "abusing" your ipod.
 The user support service isn't too great either.
Buyer beware!
Everything I Wanted! The Apple iPod has become one of the most sought-after electronic gadgets - and for good reason.
 Its sleek design, large memory capacity, compatibility with iTunes, and ease of use makes this one of the best portable digital listening devices on the market.
 Unless you have an enormous music/audio book library, the 20 GB model should have more than adequate storage capacity, with a stated ability to hold 5000 songs.
At an average of 14 cuts per CD, that's over 350 CD's.
This version does not come with a dock, although it can be added later as an accessory.  Y
You can use it to listen to music or audio books, either downloaded via the internet or added to your music library using your CD drive.
 Features: click wheel to navigate; ability to work with Windows or Mac; optional backlighting (you can have it on all the time, or have it shut off to save battery power after 5, 10, or 20 seconds); ability to download PDA info; automatic or manual download from iTunes when iPod is plugged into your computer.
There's even an equalizer (under "settings") that allows you to adjust the sound for acoustic, bass booster, bass reducer, classical, dance, "deep", and electronic.
  With accessories, you can make the iPod into a digital recorder, broadcast it remotely through stereo speakers using wireless technology, and play it through your car speakers using either a CD adaptor or FM stereo broadcaster.
 The iPod comes formatted for the Mac, but within seconds of plugging it into a PC, is automatically reformatted for Windows.  (The HP version comes with Windows formatting, and takes seconds to change to Mac.) Although the iPod can be changed from one format to another, you will lose all of your music and data when doing so.
Both platforms work seamlessly with the iPod.
 The box comes with iPod, ear buds, iTunes and iPod software, USB 2.0 and FireWire cables, and a home charger.
 You  will need a computer with a six-pin FireWire or USB 2.0 port (USB 1.1
For Mac owners, you'll need Mac OS X 10.1.5 or later (10.3.4 or later is recommended) and your machine must have the appropriate ports built-in.
 PC users must have a processor of 500 MHZ or faster, Windows 2000 with Service Pack 4 or later or Windows XP, with the ports either built-in or expanded with a card.
ITunes can be downloaded from the enclosed CD or for free from the Apple site.
Since nothing is perfect, the iPod does have some disadvantages, such as its reliance on iTunes to download music (if you hate iTunes, don't buy an iPod!).
Because it is a hard drive, it has moving parts unlike other MP3 players, perhaps making it more prone to catastrophic damage.
 Its steel backing picks up fingerprints and scratches easily, not great from a cosmetic standpoint.
All in all, this is a wonderful device.
About 1/2 inch thick, with the face dimensions the size of a credit card, it can be slipped in a pocket or carried easily in the han!d.
  The weight is heavier than many digital players, but I like the solid feel.
 Highly recommended for people who like to listen to music or audio books on the go.
Holy cow! It really does scratch easily!
 Wow... just less than 15 minutes and the back of it already has a scratch!
 So dissapointing, however I am now just gonna assume it's gonna get pretty niceley scratched over the years and I'll just have to live with it... and i will buy a case for it tomorrow... I mean heck I intended to get the case tomorow anyway but now it feels like the thing might even scratch IN THE CASE.. Other than that I am super extied about this product... I will update the review later in a few days...
great product with Limited Services
 I was quite happy after months of saving part of my pay-check to go to the store and finally get an iPod.
  It was worth it, as I use it to this very day.
  The thing has survived plenty of falls with little or no damage, except the inevitable scratches.
  Apple has definately fulfilled its reputation in making quality equipment, and surprisingly wasn't as expensive as its reputation normally holds.
However, it fell into one of Apple's worst reputations.
 It is very closed to services and programs outside of Apple's small (though luxiourious, admittedly) island.
 However, they close you off from exploring the continent that is other music providers.
After hearing about the new Napster service for portable MP3 players, I was anxious to try it out.
 This type of service is one that Microsoft is touting...  one where you pay a flat rate per month for unlimited music downloads.
 So it was not any surprise that I could not try out this new type of service.
Apple closed their island to anything that resembled Microsoft, and clearly let Napster know it could not use their products with Napster's services.
 This has been the case with all other competing music services and Napster.
Why would they let anything compete with them when they are making millions from song downloads by iPod owners who have no other choice?
  If Apple makes no attempt to at least create an equivalent type of service, they are failing to compete with the market.
 And if they treat their customers like herding sheep, I see little reason to purchase another MP3 player with a bitten apple embroidered on it.
 Battery non-issue.
 The iPod batteries can go through a full recharge cycle 400 times.
 If you listen to the iPod four hours per day and you get 10 hours per recharge cycle (not the full twelve specified by Apple) then the iPod will give you over 2.5 years of daily listening.
  Apple provides a good discussion of the battery technology at www.apple.com/batteries (and this web address is noted in the iPod manual)
  My earlier generation (15Gb) iPod lasted two years, shortened by my own inattention to the simple maintainence asked by Apple (go through at least one charging cycle per month, and don't store the iPod in a car on a summer day because high temp. is harmful to the battery's life).
 Finally, if your battery gives out, you can use any number of reputable iPod services to swap it out for <$50 and you're good to go for another 2.5 years (or longer if battery technology improves.)
Ask yourself how often you've seen battery covers break on consumer electronics.
They wear out pretty easily when you're changing batteries every week or so.
Given that, I find the iPod solution reasonable: keep the case sealed and let the battery be changed by a technician once every 2-3 years.
No big deal.
You might change the battery once before the iPod is superceded by something a lot better and less expensive.
 In fact you may get a newer-better-cheaper device before you get to that point.
Finally, compare the iPod to other players on a cost/Gb, and also consider ease of use.
The iPod is not overpriced compared to the market.
This is the best purchase I've made in a very long time.
 I am a total iPod addict.
The sound is INCREDIBLE; very clean, very wide dynamic range of bass, mids and highs, and can be very loud if I turn it up full blast.
 I have less than 3 GB worth of music, and I don't have any more music in my collection.
 I love my new iPod!
The Great And Versatile iPod	 I love my iPod!
I have wanted one for a long time, but just didn't want to spend the money.
 I wish I had a long time ago.
 The sound quality is excellent, accessing the music is easy, and the controls are generally well thought out.
As a Windows user, I had to install the software including drivers and iTunes on my desktop, and this is the only area where I encountered a nuisance.
The first install did not work correctly and would never transfer music to the iPod (but did allow me to register with Apple and load songs into iTunes).
Eventually I had to uninstall the whole works and reinstall it from scratch, and from then on it has worked like a dream.
 I still give the iPod five stars, though, as it could have been something I did incorrectly during the install (though I did follow the onscreen prompts) so I'll give Apple the benefit of the doubt.
  My only regret is that I bought the 20GB model, which is way too big for what I really need: I would have been better off with a smaller model of lower capacity.
Perhaps over time I will fill it up, but with almost 250 songs on my iPod now and less than 1GB used, I have a long way to go.
 That's the only advice I would give to someone considering an iPod purchase: you really may not really need 20GB or 40GB.
The iPod does come with other nifty software accoutrements, but honestly I haven't used them much as I use the iPod to listen to music while I run or on a plane.
The battery holds a charge for a very long time (maybe 15 or so hours of use) so realistically there are no real range or endurance issues associated with iPod use.
  My only complaint (really more of an observation) is that the outside finish of the iPod is rather delicate, so I am going to get a case for mine so it doesn't get all scratched up.
(It sure does look nice, though!)  I recommend this to any music lover anywhere: the quality of the audio is excellent, the controls and indicators rapidly become intuitive, and the storage capacity and battery life are huge!
 Still my favorite MP3 player	 Is it overpriced ?
 Dunno, possibly but you have to ask yourself what you are neccessarily paying for, which is 20GBs worth of storage capacity, which even if all your music is in high fidelity such as 320kpbs, there is still a whole lot of room to place much music in here.
  Using the software iTunes is relatively simple, you just plug the USB cable in, wait your machine to detect the iPod and voila, any songs listed in your iTunes library will be transfered on over to the iPod.
  At first I primarily used it as a stand-alone portable player but it wasn't until I decided to take it in my car and use it to play back music that I truly adored this device.
 Now if you do decide to take the iPod on the road, my suggestion is to forego any purchasing of the FM Transmitter devices, unless you live out in the middle of Mississipi because frankly, you'll need a next-clear FM channel on your radio to get any sembelance of a clear signal.
 I actually hooked up the iPod to my receivers AUX port with a Pbus connector and a Y-splitter cable, it wasn't too hard to do and now, I can listen to all my music in my car without ever having to lug around CDs again.
 And, with the iPods' full volume up, all you have to do is adjust your receivers' volume and your set, since the iPod itself acts as a strong amplifer of its' own.
  If there were any complaints I have, they are marginal, but one is Apples' properietary set-up for music files, their incompatibility with other music services (i.e. Napster) is down right wrong.
 I mean, it would be nice if one day, iTunes can actually offer their customers a monthly service that allows iPod owners to load their iPods up with unlimited music with one set fee, as an option to the pay-99cents-a-track path.
Regardless though, it did set me back financially but now, I'm glad I have one.
 I go everywhere with it, on campus, in the gym and at work too !
By far the best MP3 player I've ever used
 This review will contain some comparisons to other MP3 players (mainly the Rio Nitrus) for interested consumers.
 If you want to know exclusively about the iPod, you'll find that here too!  RIO VS. IPOD  For Christmas I was given a Rio Nitrus (1.5 GB) and was extremely pleased with it.
However I looked up some consumer reviews online only to find out it had the shortest warranty of any MP3 player on the market, and was notorious for having poor customer service and completely breaking after 90 days (when the warranty expires, surprise, surprise).
I still have my Nitrus and stand by it so far - a month has nearly passed and it's still working flawlessly.
  However after purchasing a 20 GB iPod it's clear to see the superiority.
For a sleeker, smaller and more "average" MP3 player the Nitrus is great but the iPod blows it out of the water - the interface is great and the design is wonderful.
 It "feels" much more professional and well built - the clickable scroller, for example, is a brilliant invention and I never feel as if I'm going to perhaps break it or snap it off (as I sometimes did with the Nitrus).
  THE CONS OF THE IPOD  There are a few advantages to the Nitrus.
You can transfer music from one PC to the other.
 However, with the iPod you cannot.
The music MUST be on your computer.
 If you plug your iPod into a PC and try to upload music/etc. it won't work.
Someone told me that he had a 40 GB iPod, and after his computer crashed he lost his paid iTunes music files.
They were on his iPod, but the device would not let him upload the files onto his new computer; and after he tried, the iTunes software deleted the files from his iPod, assuming they were stolen (?).
 Also, some other MP3 players such as the Nitrus allow you to play WMA (Windows Media Audio) files, whereas the iPod does NOT.
Considering the fact that just about any CD you purchase and "rip" to your hard drive will be formatted as a WMA file, iTunes version 4.5 (included with new iPod releases) contains an auto-converter that converts WMA to MP3 for iPod compatability.
 My only nitpick with this is that it sometimes doesn't work on certain files and presents error messages.
I had similar trouble with my Soundgarden CD - the ripped tracks continually failed to convert properly to MP3.
So, I downloaded another program (Switch freeware) and manually changed the WMA files to MP3, then downloaded them to the iPod.
 The problem with this is that a) it takes a LOT of time if you have many files and b) audio quality is somewhat lost (if you're an audiophile, this will bother you - frankly, I can't tell the difference).
Also, I don't like how when I first set up my iPod, it took me about four hours to get everything going - the new iTunes software has an exploited flaw which is that if you do not connect your iPod to your PC during installation, it will not configure the iPod, and when you later plug it into your computer the PC will recognize it as an external device rather than an actual iPod, and you will not be able to use the iTunes software until you access your device manager and change the iPod "hard drive" to a new letter.
 If this sounds confusing, just make sure you have your iPod plugged in when you install the iTunes software!
 This seems obvious but the flaw lies herein: the instruction booklet tells users to charge their iPods 2 - 4 hours before initial use.
In the meantime, users will obviously begin to install their software - and since the charger takes up the underbelly of the iPod and USB connection to the computer, it's impossible to hook it up to your PC during installation without unplugging the charge adapter and actually turning the iPod on - which we're not supposed to do for 2 - 4 hours!
Confused yet? Don't be.
 This is really the only downside to the iPod - setting it up and downloading music.
The actual experience of USING the iPod is magnificent.
  THE PROS  The bad ends here, because as far as I'm concerned the rest of...well...everything concering the iPod is an enormous PLUS!
 The design, as mentioned above, is sleek, cool and trendy (and I think trendy = good, but it's always hard to tell these days).
 The battery life lastes 12 hours, and charges quickly. (As mentioned above, the initial charge is a minimum of only two hours - not too long at all!) Once you've downloaded your music, you can access the tracks by artist, genre, album, composer (this comes in handy when the actual composer is different from the artist - e.g. covers of songs), etc.
 The list is endless.
 The entire database is set up flawlessly and really works well.
 I love scrolling through the menus - that may sound strange but that's how FUN using the iPod actually is!
 The!  sound quality is great.
The included earphones are pretty good - my advice?
Don't apply the black cushioned protectors.
First of all, no one does this and it will make you stand out and look "uncool."
 Just kidding.
 But really, EVERYONE I've seen with an iPod leaves them off.
But unlike most fashion statements (if this could indeed be seen as one?) this concept is a logical one - the black cushions often cover up the letters on the earbuds that designate whether they're for your left or right ear.
 I had to constantly peel mine off to see which was which, so I finally just got rid of the cushions and don't even notice the difference.
  The ease of use of the iPod is a major attribute.
 As mentioned above, accessing songs is simultaneously easy and fun.
 With the iPod, you can also store documents and contact files (from programs such as Microsoft Outlook) when it's connected to your PC as an external hard drive.
This is good for the businessmen who listen to music on their commute and can rely on the iPod to even carry around some of their word documents.
 I'm sure future generations of the iPod will be able to carry much more, probably even videos.
Also included in the "games" section is the great music trivia option - which tests your skill at being able to quickly place your own songs.
The game plays a segment of a song, and gives you a multiple-choice list wherein you have a short period of time to choose the title of the song from a list of others.
  What's great about this is that it's a game based on YOUR music.
When I first saw "music trivia quiz" I thought it was some pre-programmed elitist thing - it's not.
 It's a lot of fun and really tests your reflexes.
It's a good way to pass the time.
  20 GB OR 40 GB?  The pros of the 40 GB: Comes with a "dock station" and double storage space (10,000 songs).
  Cons of the 40 GB: Much more expensive just for some extra space and a docking station, both of which you don't really need.
 Think about it for a minute - the 20 GB holds 5,000 songs: more than you're ever likely to need at any one time.
 If you want to add more, just delete some that you haven't been listening to recently.
 I mean, for music buffs and archivists - use your PC as the archive, not the iPod!
It's just my personal advice but you're saving a lot of money and from personal experience the docking station is really sort of a rip-off - based on the sleek design of the iPod, it's very easy to simply lay it down without damaging it or anything.
  Overall the iPod really is an almost flawless beast. The capacity in the 20 GB is more than I think most people would ever need and, for the price, I highly recommend it.
 At $290 (the price I paid) it's quite a bargain.
 My ONLY complaint thus far is the process of downloading tracks to the iPod itself - the iTunes software is really a hassle, above all else the whole concept of WMA and the faulty built-in converter
.  But the iPod itself is totally flawless as far as I'm concerned, and the best MP3 player on the market.
Whether you're on the go or just want to lounge around the house listening to music, you could definitely do much, much worse than purchasing this durable and reliable product from Apple.
Would be FIVE STARS, except for MAJOR FLAW
 Let me say first, that I have always been a hater of all things Apple.
However, after holding an ipod at circuit city, I knew I had to have one.
When I finally got it, I was amazed by how asthetically pleasing everything was, including the packaging.
 The ipod itself is very pleasing to hold with its smooth surfaces.
  The only thing that protrudes slightly is the "hold" switch.
 For this reason, it is very easy to drop.
One of the other reviewers said get the neoprene case from marware, which is great advice.
  I have almost dropped the ipod several times, just because it is so smooth.
Everything else about the ipod is great, the click wheel is very easy to use and so is the software that comes with it.
 To adjust the volume, you just sweep your finger lightly along the click  wheel.
 Organizing music is a breeze too.
 You can put songs in multiple categories, which is great.!
Finding all the albums, songs etc is much easier than you would think it would be even if you have 20 gig (well 18 gig) worth of music.
  It all sounds great too.
 As with most headphones that come with any type of music player,I recommend throwing these into the nearest river, unless you like having hard, round pieces of plastic in your ears.
 I recommend Shures (shure.com).
 I have the e3c's, and man does everything on the ipod sound great.
 You can even use the ipod to store files from your pc and export your outlook files to it.
  I use a great free program called ipod agent to do this.
 The outlook is a little clunky to use on the ipod, but it is functional.
   I LOVE THIS IPOD!  So why, you ask, did I give it only one star?
Because Steve Jobs is a twisted individual and he made sure that he ruined this device by giving it an UNREPLACABLE 18 MONTH BATTERY.
 To see a great little short film about this, go to ipodsdirtysecret.com
  This was obviously a conspiracy as it is FREAKIN' EASY to manufacture a device with replaceable batteries!!
    If you can get past this little flaw, give the ipod 5 stars, because everything else about it is pretty much perfect.
However, in my mind, $299 is a lot to pay for a device that will only last 18 MONTHS.
 Hence, the one star rating...
Good, But Not For Everyone
 I was shopping for a MP3 player recently, and had the opportunity to play with my cousin's 20GB iPod at some length to see how I liked it.
 I had initially been planning on buying this or another Apple product, but since decided to buy a player made by a different manufacturer.
  Overall, I think the iPod is a good player, although I would note some features that turned me off:
 LOOKS AND DURABILITY: I realize many people are fond of the minimalist white interface.
 I'm not one of them.
  While I like the minimialism of the player, I try to avoid plastic products made of white- they tend to yellow with age.
While they have released those "tattoos" for the players, I think those just look cheap and gaudy, especially since they leave the corners of the iPod exposed.
The biggest red flag for me was the fact that although my cousin's player was relatively new, it was riddled with scratches.
  While he's not the most careful guy in the world, it was really beat up consider the minimal amount he uses the thing, and talking to other people who have iPods confirmed that the player scratches very easily- and from personal experience, they look terrible scratched up.
THE CLICKWHEEL: Again, I realize that most people think this is the greatest thing since sliced bread.
 I disagree.
 I strongly suggest anyone considering an iPod test it out first to see how they like it.
 I thought the clickwheel sounded great, but after trying it found it awkward.
As a student, I spend a significant amount of time on my laptop and am used to scrolling up and down on the touchpad, which made the Creative Zen Touch a more attractive product for me.
 Be sure you test this first to see if it does feel intuitive for you, rather than just going on the fact that it does sound pretty neat.
 BATTERY: Compared to the other players on the market, the iPod has one of the worst batteries around.
 The Sony Walkman and Creative Zen Touch get 30 and 24 hours per charge, respe
 Since no company has yet to come out with an interchangeable battery for the jukebox-sized players (the Creative Labs Zen Micro is the only one I'm aware of that has this, and it's 5 GB), this can be an issue.
IN SUMMARY: This is a good, basic player.  It's not for everyone, and if you're in the market for one I suggest that you try to put aside the huge popularity of the iPod and look harshly at the actual features that the other players on the market have, and see how they stack up.
 Apple is already being outpaced by Creative Labs and Sony on the battery front, and just about any non-Apple player allows you more compatibility with download services than Apple's iTunes-only program.
  But since a lot of these MP3 players are marketed on aesthetics, do go to your local store or borrow a friend's and see how the product actually feels and works.
  This may be the player for you, but it's not leaps and bounds ahead of any other player, and others are ahead of it in certain areas, so practice some caution when you buy.
	Pure And Simple, Wonderful Stuff.
	 If, like me you simply want an iPod to play your mp3's, buy this one.
If you want colour screens, photos, videos etc, buy the latest (extremely expensive) model, I think the new 60GB has all the extras.
This 20GB just plays the songs, most people won't even use the 20GB space, I've got about 1500 songs on mine that adds up to nearly 13GB.
  I would strongly recommend the iPod over rival mp3 players such as the Creative Zen and the creatively named iRiver.
Most importantly because the iPods warranty is far superior to both these, the Creative Zens is only 90 days, way too short.
The iRivers is also short, and lets face it, what is more likely to brake or go wrong, the Apple iPod or Creative Zen, iRiver.
Both from unspecialist makes, and in Creatives case a company that deals mostly in computer parts, and has not invested the money that Apple has.
So reliability is the winner here for the iPod.
  As far as an actual player is concerned, the iPod is next to none.
 The one advantage the iRiver has is it can play wma files aswell as mp3s, unlike the iPod.
But all you need to do is convert the files (besides mp3s are larger and better quality files than wmas) using a wide range of convertors, my favourite is the dBPowerAmp Music Coverter which also allows you to burn directly from cd to hardrive in mp3 format unlike Media Player.
 It's well worth it, the mp3s do in fact sound better.
For looks, well iPod is head and shoulders better, both the iRiver and Creative Zen look positively ugly when next to a gleaming iPod.
 The iPod package comes with everything you need, the AC adaptor, firewire cable (quicker than USB, but slower than USB 2 which it also gives), those snazzy and powerfull headphones, and of course the player.
 Quite simply, BUY THE IPOD, whatever size you wish.
I would go along the lines of any more than 2 thousands songs, get a larger size such as the 40GB, just to be on the safe side.
Just don't drop it.
 I had the 15G iPod of the previous incarnation.
 Actually I had two: the first one stopped working within a month so I took it back, and they exchanged it (which is evidently pretty extraordinary - guess I lucked out.  I didn't tell them I had dropped it once).
 Then I had the second one in my boyfriend's car, and his car got jacked.
Fortunately his insurance covered it (also extraordinary), and as luck would have it, this new gen of iPods came out the same week he got the check.
  So I got a free 5G upgrade out of that misfortune.
  I also got to see just how utterly addicted I am to my iPod in the few weeks I had to go without one.
  The major change from the previous model, other than the extra 5G for the same price, is that this one is slightly smaller and lighter, and the already minimal buttons (menu, play/pause, forward and back) have now been assigned to the four quarters of the click wheel, so that even less brain power is required to search through your 10,000 stolen mp3s.
 Mac is really big on streamlining everything (maybe that's why you never get a decent manual with any of their products).
 I like the click wheel OK, but actually the one problem I've had with this, my third, iPod is that occassionally the wheel gets "stuck," meaning either it won't respond at all, or it "jumps" down playlists uncontrollably.
 When this happens I have to toggle the lock switch on and off to get it to work properly.
I guess that's a pretty minor deal, but it can be annoying.
 Needless to say, these are fragile machines.
 Maybe this new design is more durable than the last, but I kind of doubt it.
I don't really intend to drop mine to find out.
 The thing is, naturally you're going to use your iPod at the gym or whatever, and it can be a bit of a liability because you always feel like you have to protect it.
 Not that anybody would revert back to their old-skool walkman just because you can knock it around more.
The thousands of songs at your fingertips thing, you just can't beat that with a stick.
But seriously though, how bout we work on the durability thing for the next gen.
 We can start by losing the shiny miracle-material cover that you can literally scratch just by looking at it wrong, and thus eliminate the need for third-party "iSkin" protective covers for an extra thirty bucks.
 The other thing is the earbuds.
First of all, I've never been big on earbuds - they're just not that comfortable.
  These are nice ones, and you get great sound at first, but again, they break if you even think mean things about them.
 With both pairs I had ceramic rattling in my ears by month two.
 And I'm really not that rough with things!
 These issues aside, the iPod is kind of like the cell phone in that once you have one, you can't be without one.
  Mac has at least cornered the mp3 player market across the board.
  PC users have a lot of choices, but based on what I've heard and read, the iPod really is the best all-around, athough being a Mac product, it has the usual streamlined and comparatively less customizable software.
  And if you're a Mac user like me, they've naturally made sure you have no viable alternative.
Also, you have to use it with iTunes - or they'll sue, dammit!  But iTunes is about as good as anything.
  Buy the 20GB instead of the Mini
A lot of the reviews I've read talk about IPODS in general.
 I'm writing about the 4G IPOD 20GB model.
 I ordered the mini from amazon, and while waiting for it to arrive I wandered into the Apple store.
I'm glad I did.
  After talking to the salesman, I instead bought the 4G, 20GB (that stands for 4th generation; it looks like a mini - same features), and didn't know that a lot of the ipods out there for sell, including on amazon, are still 3G.
 The player is great.
 I didn't think I would need more than the 5GB that the mini has, but... once I downloaded a few audio books on top of my CD's -- I'm GLAD I have the extra memory.
 However, the battery life isn't as good as I would like.
There is an attachment you can buy that allows you to use AA batteries in an emergency, but...I've never completely run out of juice; just dangerously low on long airline trips.
 For about $5! 6 dollars, you can get an "extended warranty" and apple will replace the battery within 2 years if it dies.
  Think about that if you are worried about battery life.
 Overall, this product is AWESOME.
 All the "cool" features of the mini, but with 20GB instead of 5.
I love it.
I like it.
 Pros Holds a ton of music.
No more Cds and your cd player getting broken when you step on it in your car or any other place
 Really easy to use.
 Has the click wheel and the ability to scan through thousnds of songs and organizes them great.
 Has a great helpline.
 They fix the problem and help you with whatever your I-Pod needs Comes with two USB ports and a charger.
 They are EXTREMELY convient and you don't have to buy them seperately Has I-Tunes, which provides qulity music at low prices.
  Cons Breaks easily.
Hard drive screws up occasionally
 Warranty expires only after a year.
 Is extremely senstive to bumps and knocks.
The I-Pod is the best thing I have ever used.
I have a ton of cds and I make a mess trying to organize them into things.
 The I-Pod certainly helps me with my music and I can take it anywhere with me.
 I can take it to Work, School, and even listen to it at my computer.
Also, a word of warning, hide the White Earbud headphones, because they are the most noticable earphones ever and your precious I-Pod could be stolen from you if you don't take steps to hide it from view of other people.
I hope you enjoy your I-Pod!
So far it has worked out great	 I
 held out for the 4th generation 20GB iPod when I heard that it was coming equiped with the 'click wheel', that had previously only been available for the iPod 'mini'.
I found that to be the most impressive thing about the iPod 'mini' - basically for ease of use, and the feel it gives.
It was worth the wait.
   The 'click wheel' is much easier to use, compared to the previous generation's models with the touch screen.
It takes seconds to work the menus and go from song to song.
 This unit comes with the USB/firewire cable as a standard item now.
Does not come with the dock, remote control, or carrying case like the 3rd generation units - but you get $100 off the price, so you can still end up with the same accessories, and a new generation iPod for the same money.
  I have transferred in about 2,400 tracks so far - very easy to use both the Ipod and iTunes.
Both are EXTREMELY user friendly and take minutes to get used to.
   Backing up your iTunes library takes a short amount of time.
Two DVDs to capture all 2,400 tracks.
Burning CDs from iTunes is much easier than the Windows Media Player, which I was previously using.
The first battery charge lasted only about six hours.
That may be due to the fact that I used the menus a lot, and had it hooked up to the Griffin iTrip (The iTrip works great) for most of that time.
 The second battery charge lasted over twelve hours.
 I used it mainly on shuffle play and shut off the "click" sound to get this much life out of it.
I was worried about what the sound quality would be like, but that seems to be just as good as the actual CD sound.
 I bought the JBL Creature speakers for home use, and they work great with the iPod.
Match them pretty well to boot.
 The only area I wish Apple had improved upon would be the screen.
 It is sharper on the 'mini' units.
This is only a problem at night, during the day the screen is very easy to see.
The backlight helps out at night, but can be a drain on the battery.
You can adjust the time the backlight stays on (or turn it off completely), so it's only a minor issue.
 The first time I took it in the car, and was able to chose from hundreds of CD titles, thousands of songs, to have all of that at my fingertips was a great experience.
 Talk about convenience.
 I would strongly recommend you get one !!
I Love My iPod!
 Although iPods have been around for a few years, they didn't really get hot until now.
I ended up (surprisingly) getting one for Christmas.
I love the features on the iPod and the many things you can do with it.
It DESERVES a perfect 5-stars.
 The only problem is the battery life.
 After about 3-4 months, you see your battery draining faster than it should.
After a year, your battery is dead and you need to replace it with a new one.
Apple's iPod battery replacement service costs $100!
Amazing.
 You pay $300 for the iPod itself, then $100 to get the battery fixed.
If you look on Google or around the web's many search engines, you can find a site that will replace the battery at a cheaper price.
Apple needs to step it up and get better, longer lasting batteries.
Not perfect, but I'm still enamored...	 I've had an iRiver MP3 player for a year or so now, and it's really great for listening to the radio.
 It's small and lightweight, but it has very little storage space and the shape is clunky.
 I set my sights on this super sexy iPod and didn't stop until I finally had one in my hands.
 I am so in love with this thing I can hardly stand it.
 It's got LOTS of pros, and a couple minor cons, which I will outline below.
It's still an absolutely unbeatable value for the amazing technology you're getting, so don't let a few petty cons dissaude you from owning THE coolest thing on the planet right now for any music lover.
 The iPod is a little more weighty than I expected, but it's not unmanageable.
The arm band is fantastic and it doesn't budge even at the gym.
I love the slim design; the weight would only be an issue if it were bulky.
The ear buds that come with it look cheap, but the sound quality is amazing.
 It sounds 10 times better if you use the little black foam cushions that slip over the buds.
  The click wheel is incredibly convenient, however it can be a little overly touchy at times, which will make you frustrated with your own fingers.
A lot of this has to do with being so excited when you first get it that you get beside yourself and have to force yourself to slow down.  ;)  I love the shuffle function, which virtually eliminates the need to touch it at all.
  I use mine mostly at the gym, so this is fantastic for me.
  It charges quickly and holds a charge for a very long time.
I love that it allows you to stop and turn it off in the middle of a song if need be, and when you power it back on it will continue right where you left off!
 I am a big fan of iTunes, simply because it is terribly fast and convenient - IF you are buying the songs from the iTunes site.
However, I have found that converting my CD's and MP3's into the iTunes library fo!r upload takes a fairly annoying chunck of time.
  It's the biggest pain in the rear end of all the cons, without a doubt.
  Of course, once the songs are converted, you don't have to worry with them again.
  It's very fast and easy to create custom playlists for upload.
 The only other problem I have noticed is that on some uploads it will switch around CD song titles (all on the same artist, it just mixes up the titles).
 I have no clue why this happens, as they show up perfectly in my iTunes library and there was no interruption during the uploads.
 It's really no big deal to me, but is worth mentioning.
 All in all, the good far outweighs the bad.
 This is the first line of Apple products I have owned (we also have an iPod mini and are about to purchase a shuffle).
  I am so impressed with the iPod that our next purchase will likely be a Mini Mac.
 Way to go Apple!
You've earned a new fan.
Product Of The Decade
 What was the biggest must-have item of 2004?
 Yep, the iPod.
Sales of Apple's mini-phenomenon currently stand at around 20 million worldwide, and this number is set to triple over the next couple of years.
That's a lot of money Apple are making from a very powerful, influential and trendy product.
 But is it worth all the hype?
Well reviewing a product like this is definitely complicated, because do I rate my personal connotation on it?
Or simply rate its performance in relation to other products?
There's no two ways about it, I have been less than impressed with my own iPod 20 GB when it arrived two weeks ago.
 However, having said that, this could just be because I haven't really had enough time to experience it in its entirety.
I rarely get drawn in by mass-commercialism, but something about the iPod made me say, in the words of Lou and Andy, "I WANT THAT ONE!" I was willing to shell out
